Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

1. Kāmasuttaniddesa

Reverence to him, the Fortunate One, the Worthy One, the Perfect Sambuddha

Relatives sensual pleasures
Rejoicing in the sensual realm,

And they’re successful:
But if you succeeds in them,

he has confidence in his mind,
he is joyful, there is happiness,

and gets what they like.
gets what they need.

sensual pleasures give rise to sensual pleasures, or two kinds of sensual stimulation.
Sensual pleasures give rise to sensual pleasures, two kinds of sensual stimulation.

Sense desire for objects and defilements.
Sense desire for objects and defilements,

What is sense desire for objects?

pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are likable, desirable, agreeable,

Bhaddā slaves, female bondservants, goats, chickens and pigs, and elephants and cattle and gold and money. What villages, towns, cities, and countries? Whatever country and kings.
Take the right time, Dāsaka, Dāsaka, Bhagu, Khiṇāla, and Bhagiri, Chickens and pigs, and various kinds of elephants, inhabited areas, of gold and money.

Sense desire for objects,

Furthermore, past sense desires, future sense desires, present sense desires;

internal sense desires, external sense desires, internal and external sense desires;

inferior sense desires, middling sense desires, excellent sense desires;

sense desires leading to the downfall, sense desires leading to human state,

sense desires cease without anything left over.
sense desires leading to the opportunity, sense desires having signs, sense desires not having signs,

sense desires that are possessed, sense desires that are not possessed, sense desires that are not possessed, sense desires that are not sense desires,
sense desires that are possessed, sense desires that are not possessed, sense desires that are (their) possession.

all things in the sense fields are seen to be experienced as objects of the fine-material sphere, etc., and sense desires as object, and craving for sensual pleasures.
all things in the sense of sensual pleasures, all things in the formless-world sphere, under the heading of the formless-worker.

These are said to be the sense desires for objects.

What defilements like?
What are the defilements that cause?

Sense desire as impulse, desire, passions,

sense desire as thought, sense desire as passion, sense desire as passionate desire.

Sensual desire, passion, attachment, and craving for sensual pleasures.
The desire for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, craving for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, and craving for sensual pleasures.

“I saw the root of sensual pleasures,

you’re struck by desire
you’re a springing by desire!

I won’t strike you,
I won’t think,

So you won’t say that.”
doesn’t follow sensual pleasures.”

These are called the defilements that defilement.
These are said to be the defilements.

Being delighted in sensual pleasures, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
Rejoicing desire for sensual pleasures, being heedlessly enjoying the desire of sensual pleasures, delighting in them,

Relatives sensual pleasures
Rejoicing in the sensual realm,

And they’re purified.
But if you succeeds in them,

Suppose an aristocrat, a brahmin, a merchant, or a worker.
His aristocrats or brahmins or householders are going forth, or a human being.

They are said to be the sense desires for objects.
They are said to be the sense desires for objects:

pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are likable, desirable, agreeable,

They gain and honor and respect.
You find joy in them; you get fair, and you’ll get hold of them.

And they’re successful:
But if you succeeds in them,

He’s full of rapture and happiness.
He feels rapture and happiness.

and terms for one termites. This is an independent accumulation: terminology and display, an accumulation, depressed by defecation of flesh, lump of defecation, and indeterminate eating, that is to say,
it is terminated from definitiveness that has nothing to do with definitive acts, terminology and embarrassed in one opposite, this is termination.

it is certainly not possible to lift my head from the round (of births and deaths) through a thousand rebirths,

the five kinds of sensual stimulation uplifted, elated, full of rapture and happiness, the joy of mind, and expressed his appreciation.
the fivefold happiness, elated, delighting in the five strands of sense pleasure, was uplifted, excited, joyful, and happy.

mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact are called the ‘field’.
The mind element, the mind-consciousness element, the mind-made body, the mind-consciousness element. The mind element is called the corrupt consciousness element.

This mind has arisen in the same place as the foundation of the mind associated with happiness. It is one thing that originates from the cessation of perception and feeling.
This mind has arisen in the same way with the rapture and bliss as its associated state. The cessation of all associated states with one object.

They’re full of rapture and happiness. They’re elated, full of rapture and happiness. They’re happy and joyful, and they’re happy.
he is joyful, elated, joyful, and happy. He feels joyful and elated, full of rapture and happiness.

he has confidence in his mind,
he is joyful, there is happiness,

He gets a mortal longs thinking.
when you get drives out.

Having received what they gained, but being unable to get these things,
gaining faith, but having obtained (them), after becoming having gained,

A person who is betrayed by death, no conceit, a person, and all along with a Indasāla,
A person who is betrayed by disease, a person who is a soul.

If they wish for, specifically enjoying what you wish. What you desire, whatever you take pleasure in.
if he desires, whatever is wanted, he takes it up, gets hold of, contacts it, or what is like; he wants to hear a sound, or smells an odor;

The Buddha replied,

“Directly pleasure,
“Namely desire for sensual pleasures,

And they’re successful:
But if you succeeds in them,

he has confidence in his mind,
he is joyful, there is happiness,

they’ve got past you.”
when you’ve got all fetters.”

If you’re prepared
If you’re starting with sensual pleasures

those who are born of desire for the people.
a person who has arisen for the one.

They have given up desires.
Sensual pleasures have been given up.

washed and clean,
washed an arrow.

If they enjoy them
If you’re in the sensual realm

Suppose an aristocrat, a brahmin, a merchant, or a worker.
His aristocrats or brahmins or householders are going forth, or a human being.

Rejecting desire for sensual pleasures, being inspired to desire, and is giving up desire for sensual pleasures.
is desireless for sensual pleasures, being heedlessly giving up desires.

Or they’re given up craving for sensual pleasures, grows disillusioned with it.
Rather, they grow disillusioned with craving.

Just as with when a elephant or a horse trainer crosses a bull with its neck, or the shaft in an elephant, horse or the carriage, or the jungle split on it,
Just as with elephants or horses yoked by an elephant, horses, chariots, or deer in a rod or a strap,

In the same way, craving for sensual pleasures grows old.

If you’re prepared
If you’re starting with sensual pleasures

those who are born of desire.
a person who has arisen for the one who is born.

Sensual desire, greed, relishing, and craving for sensual pleasures.
Sensual desire, greed, relishing, and craving for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, and craving for sensual pleasures.

Seven people have not even a hundred years of age. They’re Jessa, who give birth to a weeping place of loss,
Seven people are not satisfied to look Jotipāla’s Mother’s heart, and give birth to a person.

those who are born of desire for the people.
a person who has arisen for the one.

They decline like this:
They are declined in sensual pleasures.

Or they drop away the pleasures of sensual pleasures.
and they throw them away with sensual pleasures.

How am I given to you?
How is it that you’re dripping?

Sometimes it’s thrilled for rulers or bandits take it away, or fire consumes it, or flood sweeps away, and unloved heirs. But the eighth families don’t arise to you or the family.
Because they’re infested by kings or bandits take it, or fire consumes it, floods it, rulers, bandits, or unloved heirs. Or their wealth goes to sleep. Or they don’t bandits away their wealth.

And so they dropped the sensual pleasures that arise, as they remain, and as falling away.
When sensual pleasures decline like this, they dropped and fall.

And how do they decline?
How do they throw up sensual pleasures?

But just as to those home they sprinkle and fall apart.
But stands where they proceed, thinking: ‘Such is mine, I am plundering and falling apart.’

When they fall away from sensual pleasures, they lose their temper and fall away.
They fall away from sensual pleasures, collapse and fall away.

A rulerships by bandits.
The rulers brought me to the King.

is burned in fire.
fire is not burned,

Then in the end this corpse is cast off,

along with all your possessions.

Knowing this, an intelligent person

would enjoy what they have and also give it away.

and after giving and using them, they cause sense desires.
After giving and using according to their means, they fall away from the defilements of sensuality.

And darts it out, and sustains it.
Talking and wavering,

in whatever way the arrow or shakes and trees are struck.
When you’ve opened the dart, borrow, and smeared with thorns, inner skin, flesh, sinews, and bones, when you die, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress arise in the same way.

Skill in sensual pleasures, stubborn heat, rolls away, and disaster.
So they lose their way. They are swamped and stuck in their limbs and neck. They are trapped, strive, and make an effort.

washed and clean,
washed an arrow.

The Buddha replied,

“If you’re free of desire
“If you’re not free of desire

those who are born of desire for the people.
a person who has arisen for the one.

They have given up desires.
Sensual pleasures have been given up.

washed and cleaned with dart.”
washed an arrow.

One who avoids sensual pleasures
One who avoids sensual pleasures,

having seen a snake, glorious head,
having seen the ghee,

mindful, he transcends

mindful he transcends
Sitting with calm,

One who avoids them,

Whoever has gone forth from such a kind, or it is wide, in accordance with the Teaching, or else human.
Now, he who has gone forth as a brahmin, when he has arrived, is endowed with good qualities, with good qualities, a heavenly realm, or a human.

avoids what is given up,
Is rejected by sensual pleasures:

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

By avoiding them two reasons:
Two spends the reason for two reasons:

being cut off, or hollow, or sweat.
being destroyed, or he is cut off,

How do they avoid stalking?
How do they avoid it?

“Anyone who looked like a skeleton rose-apple, they avoid it from the bones including sensual pleasures.”
Sensual pleasures are like borders and swords, they’re incapable of sensual pleasures.

“Sensual pleasures are like musical in sensual pleasures, and they’ve to see sensual pleasures.” And they dig up from mangoes.
“Sensual pleasures are all the similes, they seemly decorated, (it is) without sensual pleasures, doing anything left over!”

“Sometimes sensual pleasures are seen and along with discomfort,”
“Sensual pleasures are like a lump of meat!” Seeing it from sense desires, they avoid doing it.

Sensual pleasures are like a pit of glowing coals, they see clearly.
Sensual pleasures are like a pit of glowing coals, which continues to see the mass of sensual pleasures.

“Thenings are inconvenient for sensual pleasures here and there’s no danger of sensual pleasures in them.”
“Thenings of the sensual-sphere are its impediments in the sense desires too.”

“When the grains on one side the floors are struck, they avoid it from the wrong time.”
“The borrowed goods on the ground, looking at the wrong time of sensual pleasures, they avoid it from afar.”

“One who has arrived at the very foot of a tree and seers like a bird with a glosssoming tree.” They avoid sitting on all sides.
“One who boxes like a rose-apple tree, sees a smearing the opposite sex and broad in the sky.”

“At girdles are like a rotten on a staking sword.” They avoiding sensual pleasures, inspiring and ropes on.
“As a rotttening on a staking sword, he saw sensual pleasures on the surface of the snake.”

“Sensual pleasures are like ants sinews, and they’ve burst openly on a cleaning block.”
“Sensual pleasures are like an iron pot.” When they see a skeleton in a hole in the neighborhood of sensual pleasures, they lose sensual pleasures.

“Seeing the dangers of sensual pleasures, they see danger in worldly pleasures, having no fear in them, they are avoiding danger.
“Sensual pleasures are like a harem, who sees fear in sensual pleasures, living in a new state of existence.”

“The boil has like a great mass of fire,” but seeing a sense of urgency in sensual pleasures, Bāhuka and other scorpears.
Saying: “Even sensual pleasures that are like a bonfire, jackally going out with an absence of sensual pleasures!”

And while developing the recollection of the Buddha, they lose their surrounding signs and rejecting them on.
While developing the recollection of the Buddha, the recollection of the Enlightened One,

Recollection of the teaching ...
recollection of the teaching ...

developing the recollection of the Sangha ...
recollection of the Saṅgha ...

developing ethics,
recollection of ethical conduct ...

developing generosity ...
recollection ...

recollection of the deities ...

developing mindfulness of breathing ...
mindfulness of breathing ...

mindfulness of death ...

mindfulness of the body ...
mindfulness of the body,

And when the recollection of peace is developed and cultivated he shook.
developing the recollection of peace eventually, having developed insight, he avoids sensual pleasures,

When developing the first absorption, they become indulgent and slack,
When developing the first absorption, they lose their way.

developed the second absorption ...
or the second absorption ...

third absorption ...

fourth absorption ...

the dimension of infinite space ...

the dimension of infinite consciousness ...
the attainment of the dimension of infinite consciousness ...

the attainment of the dimension of nothingness ...
the dimension of nothingness,

While stilling the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they lose their suffering and becoming arrogant.
While stilling the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception is including the attainment at Kāsi,

In this way they avoid sensual pleasures,
In this way he avoids them from sense pleasures,

How do they avoid sensual pleasures?
How do you avoid annihilationist?

When they develop it through the path, they become annihilationist.
Because of this path, they become annihilated.

While still pursuing the path, they gross the cut off of sensual desires,
While they were still once-returners, it appears to them as annihilation.

And even though they develop it, they are annihilated and disgusted.
While stilling on the path of non-returners, it convinces the annihilationists.

And while developing the path to Worthiness, all of them subsist on the cutting off of all sensual pleasures, incapable of the doctrines of continued existence.
They develop all the path to Worthiness, and all the way that is highly unfinished. Having no doubts or uncertainty, they continue to be totally.

As they are annihilationists:

One who avoids sensual pleasures
One who avoids sensual pleasures,

having seen a snake, grey hair,
having seen the ghee,

ghee is what is meant.

what’s suitable?

that person gains ghee.
it come to running it.

fears and terrified,
fearing, scared:

Going along comes a razor,
Going along comes along with a razor,

Go down, disease, and banner—
you go along with a remote road.

who lives well.
with his head held dear.

so they lie down.
or lies (but) soft:

if he lies down both secret and a cave.
if you lie down both your secrets,

its teeth are rown,
who was too traders, surrounded by the wind,

His teeth are poisonous, whose venom is lethal.
His are sweet-natured, priceless,

two kinds of tongue:

Two tastes, and the taste of the tongue;
he knows two tastes, knows the tongue and tastes,

As a person would want to live and doesn’t want to die, who wants to be happy and recoils from pain. When they’d lose their feet, they’d lose and become indulgent.
Suppose a person wants to live and doesn’t want to die, who wants to be happy and recoils from pain. They’d lose their tears and become indulgent.

In the same way, if a monk wishes, he should avoid at an end of suffering.
In the same way, if a mendicant wants to be happy and recommend giving up pleasure, they should avoid it.

having seen a snake, glorious head,
having seen the ghee,

mindful, he transcends
After going to heaven, he transcends a mindful worker.

One who avoids them,

one is what is meant.

That craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. You have a fixed greed for sights. You’re not greedy for sights, and cravings, grasping, mental fixing. Your desire for sights, affection, infatuation, and passion for sensual pleasures. You’re typically ill will, craving for sights, and craving for sights.

Dismission:
Leavesd:

De by what?
by what leads out?

he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

transcending the limbs,
the boundaries:

gravel.
graves, detaching.

he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

doesn’t escape beyond doubt.
he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

self-assured.
one who speaks confidently,

A rotting the streams
chopping:

on the fruit of stream-entry,
the fruit of deeds,

he leads over himself.
he enjoys himself with debt,

Or in the Attendance of sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
Or else there is a change in the various kinds of sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

in the world of the human world, in the world of the gods,
in the world of the gods, expert in the world of the gods,

Sattuka for four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

Meditate observing an aspect of feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

developing mindfulness meditation,
developing the states of peace, mindful, and mindful,

Another four reasons:
another who has four reasons:

When there is no being inclination, there is no mindfulness that is foundation for mindfulness and situational awareness, your mindfulness is established and situational awareness, and being granted.
When there is no agitation there is no inclination to be done and obstinately sticking to mindfulness and situational awareness, mindfulness and situational awareness.

Another four reasons:
another who has four reasons:

* mindfulness that is constantly predicted by mindfulness, mindful, and neglected mindfulness.
(And) mindfulness and goodness, being mindful, he breathes in mindfulness and situational awareness, mindful and aware, contempt, mindful and aware.

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

Seven quiets, mindful, with the mindful, he endowed with good qualities, (to say):
Seven days are mindful, he possesses seven factors .

Recollection of the Buddha is a recollection of the Dhamma. Recollection of the Saṅgha is recollection of virtue. Mindfulness of breathing, recollection of deities, mindfulness occupied with the body, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of peace.
Recollection of the Buddha is a Dhamma consisting in conformity with the Dhamma. Mindfulness of the body, speech, and mind. Recollection of generosity, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of death.

That which is mindfulness, recollection, recall, mindfulness, remembrance, mindfulness, and situational awareness, the faculties of being undisturbed.
The mindfulness, investigation of mindfulness, is called the body, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

With this mindfulness he is said to be endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,
With this mindfulness he is said to be ‘accomplished’, endowed with, were reborn in heaven.

mindful, he transcends
After going to heaven, he transcends a mindful worker.

Who has crossed over clinging to the world, or he crosses over and gone beyond,
this world, with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, one who has crossed over.

mindful, he transcends
mindful he transcends unevenly, mindfully.

The Buddha replied,

“They avoid them,
“The one who avoids sensual pleasures,

having seen a snake, glorious head,
having seen the ghee,

mindful, he transcends

mindful, with right wisdom.
mindful he transcends the calm.

money, gold, or silver,

I’ve prepared a valuable bondservant.
I’ll serve a slave of a bondservant.

all kinds of bonds are bound together.
those shackles away sensual pleasures.

not celebrated by disease.
you’re not all alone.

money, grain, silver, or gold.
money, gold, or silver.

fields, lands, waves, fields, lands, waists and kidneys, heart, liver and kidneys, fields and lands sesame seeds,
In the fields, land, waists, fields, lands, goats, waists, doubles, cattle-keepers, waist-coloured fields, warms, fields, lands, having eyes.

The site of the house and the site of a monastery, where the site of a monastery is building site for the dwelling.
The site of the monastery and the site of a site for the dwelling,

for gold is called money,
for one who is said to have money and wisdom,

money, gold, or silver,

where she went.
cattle, horses, and wealth.

they’re said to be destination.
they get clouded.

Satisfaction is what is meant.
and only the one called “perfection”.

bondservants,
Four bondservants,

Bondservants, Dāsaka, Dāsaka, and Sāsaka, the bondservants, workers, and staff removed.
Bondservants, servants, and workers, wives and children, and bondservants, workers, and staff.

“Whoever bondservants are here, (thinking):
“Even the bondservants are winter.

by wealth, by relatives,
Bondservants and workers.

Only a single slave,
On the slave of a single female slave,

We’ve been reborn in a company of slaves.”
they’re reborn in the company of the slaves.”

There are three kinds of men:
There are three kinds of male:

Bhackles, Jīvaka, who lives off workers,

I’ve prepared a valuable bondservant.
I’ll serve a slave of a bondservant.

all kinds of bondage are left behind.
Suffering monsters, rolls away sensual pleasures,

man is said to be possession of women:
is said to be possession of a woman.

Four bonds:

by relatives, kin, kin, and kinsman of them, bound by bondservants, and kinsmans.
by relatives and kin, and kin, and kin, and territory.

many kinds of sensual pleasures.

These are likable, desirable, and agreeable sights.
These are the many kinds of sensual stimulation. ...

pleasing touches:
pleasing tangibles:

all kinds of bonds are bound together.
those shackles away sensual pleasures.

‘He who ends with proliferation.’
not by favoring and opposing.

Whoever has gone forth from such a kind, or it is wide, in accordance with the Teaching, or else human.
Now, he who has gone forth as a brahmin, when he has arrived, is endowed with good qualities, with good qualities, a heavenly realm, or a human.

A person who is granted not a living being, a disease, an abscess, a solitary, and Jeṭṭha,
A person who is not bearing the lower world, a person who does not know the neighborhood of a man, the lord of men,

He has arrived at ease in regard to his defilements; he goes between the two or three objects of his corruptions; he smears his attachment.
He ensures them on the basis of defilements as defilement, repelled them in the middle of the neighborhood of a hair; he stops one who isn’t falling asleep.

not celebrated by disease.
you’re not all alone.

The Buddha replied,

“They are protective in any money,
“They are coming to the houses:

I’ve prepared a valuable bondservant.
I’ll serve a slave of a bondservant.

all kinds of bonds are bound together.
those shackles away sensual pleasures.

not celebrated by their foes.”
not all their favor.”

strength,
The power of foes killed.

leaving the stream.

suffering follows them
suffering follows you,

I’ll sprinkle and plunge into the boat.
My ship was sweet as a prudent.

If she makes her power without strength,
If she oxs her strength,

It is capable of weakness without strength or weakness, without strength and fondness, weakness, disobjects, countlessness, and smallness.
Weakness is powerful and unfavourable. It is oppressed by strength and weakness. It is only a small fire that is weaker. It is only a small thing.

They grow disillusioned with the defilements,
They present him, attack, and become strong.

Or they’re powerful, but lack the power of faith, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom. They’re strong, weak, raising the power of faith, mindfulness, and wisdom.
Then there is a power that is the power of fondness and strength, but weakness, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. It is the power of faith, conscience, prudence, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.

They burn the defilements,
They burned, eradicated, and crushed,

Like this, too, being powerful,
That too is how the power that is strength.

leaving behind the stream.
bathing wither.

Two purifying probation:
Two sides:

he has concealed offenses, and concealed for a half-month.
is concealed for the offenses, and concealed for the longest.

What is the cream of the winnowing?
What is the explanation of the Dhamma?

lions, tigers, leopards, bears, or hyenas, elephants, horses, buffaloes, goats, and centipedes.
a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a bear, hyenas, elephants, horses, buffalos, bulls, goats, rams, chicks;

thieves or robbers, or thieves who have not done.
thieves or robbers, who did not deceive or thieves,

Diseases of the eye, inner ear, nose, tongue, body, head, outer ear, mouth, teeth, and lips. Cough, asthma, catarrh, inflammation, fever, stomach ache, fainting, dysentery, gastric pain, cholera, leprosy, boils, eczema, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, itch, scabs, smallpox, scabies, hemorrhage, diabetes, pimples, pimples, and ulcers. Afflictions stemming from disorders of bile, phlegm, wind, or their conjunction. Afflictions caused by change in weather, by not taking care of yourself, by overexertion, or as the result
Diseases of the eye, inner ear, nose, tongue, body, head, outer ear, mouth, teeth, and lips. Cough, asthma, catarrh, inflammation, fever, stomach ache, fainting, dysentery, gastric pain, cholera, leprosy, boils, eczema, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, itch, scabs, smallpox, scabies, hemorrhage, diabetes, piles, pimples, and ulcers. Afflictions steming from disorders of bile, phlegm, wind, or their conjunction. Afflictions caused by change in weather, or as the result of past deeds. Afflictions caused by overexer

These are called the tendencies of food.
These are called the speces of offenses.

What concealed?
What is the concealed place for the concealed?

Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All of these things are the hindrances, ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All these are disturbed by anger, enmity, contempt, domineering, envy, avarice, deceit, and ill will.
Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All these things are the hindrance of sensual desire, ill will, anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

These are called the teachings that are conceived.
These are called the concealment of the offenses that were concealed.

Intelligent they disrepute.
it will rub around with a distance.

They lead to decline.
They lead to anxiety. They lead to the decline of getting material possessions. They lead to anxiety.

How do they lose?
How do you get free of desire?

They burn, swep away, and running away.
They burn the streams of the people,

That’s how they avoid.
That’s how a person frees.

How do they lead to decline?
How do they lead to the decline of this bag?

lead to decline in skillful qualities.
When they lead to decline,

What are wholesome things?

Or because it is right practice, it is entered on the good way that leads to non-regular proximate cause. It is manifested in the teaching.
Or because of right practice, they don’t penetrate theoretically.

fulfills the precepts,
fulfilling the precepts,

mindfulness and situational awareness,

The four kinds of mindfulness meditation.

The five faculties of someone who develops the five powers.
The five faculties, mind, and the five powers,

The seven awakening factors.

the noble eightfold path.

These things lead to decline in skillful qualities.
These things lead to an obstacle.

In this way they lead to decline,
In this way they lead to decline.

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do you get lost?
How are they lost?

Because those bad, unskillful qualities arise.
That bad, unskillful qualities arise to be stored up.

Just as a fisherman sleeps with his soreshed hands,
Just as when she has so tied it up with her hands,

they sleep with their intersection.
and insects cried.

in the woods hanging in the forest,
they lay down in the wood like a bed.

they lie down to the tree in the air.
they lay down to the trees in regard to trees.

In the same way, those bad, unskillful qualities arise in oneself,
In the same way, bad, unskillful qualities arise and bad, unskillful qualities.

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.

And how does a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master live in suffering and discomfort?

When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts prone to fetters.
When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise and bad, unskillful qualities that arise because of the dregs, they don’t look down on them.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

They treat them with their own hands.
they’re mastered by that,

Those qualities master them.
‘A bad, unskillful qualities’ is mastered by bad unskillful qualities.

they’re said to have a teaching master.

Furthermore, monks, a monk hears a sound with the ear ...
Furthermore, a mendicant hears a sound with the ear ...

Smelling an odor with the nose,
When smelling an odor with the nose,

Having tasted a taste with the tongue,
When you taste a flavor with your tongue,

Feeling a touch with the body ...

When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful phenomena arise, and bad, unskillful qualities don’t arise.
When you know a thought with the mind, bad, unskillful qualities arise and bad, unskillful qualities decline.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

They treat them with their own hands.
they’re mastered by that,

Those qualities master them.
‘A bad, unskillful qualities’ is mastered by bad unskillful qualities.

they’re said to have a teaching master.

That’s how a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“There are these three dangers:
“Mendicants, there are these three times.

inner stains, inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers,
inner enemies, inner enemies, inner foes,

What are the three?
What three?

greed, hate, and delusion.

hate ...

and delusion.

These are the three obstacles:
These are the three obstacles.

inner stains, inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers,
inner enemies, inner enemies, inner foes,

greed creates harm;

greedy mind,

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A greedy person doesn’t know the good.

like a greedy person doesn’t see the teaching.
isn’t able to see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

creates harm;
hate is harmful;

They disturb the mind.
hate is cruel;

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

An angry person doesn’t know the good.

An angry person doesn’t see the truth.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

Delusion creates harm;

deluded mind,
deluded mind.

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A deluded person doesn’t know the good.

Mūḷaka does not see the truth.
One is like a deluded person doesn’t see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind to fellows.”
only delusion isn’t overcome by delusion.”

That’s how
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“Great king, three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

What are the three?
What three?

Great king, greed arises inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.
Greed is a person who has activity for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

Hate is hate ...
hate ...

and delusion.

These three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

greed, hate, and delusion,

have arisen inside oneself,

Destroy the person with bad thoughts,

as a reed is destroyed by its own fruit.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

For this is said by the Buddha,
And this was said by the Buddha,

“Greed and hate come from here;

from here spring discontent, desire, and terror;

here’s where the mind’s thoughts originate,

like a crow let loose by boys.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

leaving behind the stream.
bathing wither.

They burn, swep away, and die.
They burn them,

leaving the stream.

suffering follows them
suffering follows you,

If he executions that person brings suffering. If it comes to that person, they’re not exempt from rebirth, old age, and death, from sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
you’re making an end of suffering. By this person you come back to the beginning. Going, they’re not exempt from rebirth ... old age ... death ... sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

They grounded for suffering.
the embryo is rooted in suffering. ...

Perception ...

Perception in abortion, root items and all suffering,
Pregnancy in suffering, rooted in suffering,

a bondservant ...
a cow with a kinsman ...

your suffering would ruin.
If you were born ...

suffering ...
‘... suffering’ ...

if he leaves the other person because he feels pain; it doesn’t go out.
if he departs without because of leaves the monastery;

if he goes without pain;
without pain, without coming to the end of suffering.

choices ...
or choices,

or experience pain ...
or suffering,

Diseases of the eye, inner ear, nose, tongue, body, head, outer ear, mouth, teeth, and lips. Cough, asthma, catarrh, inflammation, fever, stomach ache, fainting, dysentery, gastric pain, cholera, leprosy, boils, eczema, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, itch, scabs, smallpox, scabies, hemorrhage, diabetes, pimples, pimples, and ulcers. Afflictions stemming from disorders of bile, phlegm, wind, or their conjunction. Afflictions caused by change in weather, by not taking care of yourself, by overexertion, or as the result
Diseases of the eye, inner ear, nose, tongue, body, head, outer ear, mouth, teeth, and lips. Cough, asthma, catarrh, inflammation, fever, stomach ache, fainting, dysentery, gastric pain, cholera, leprosy, boils, eczema, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, itch, scabs, smallpox, scabies, hemorrhage, diabetes, piles, pimples, and ulcers. Afflictions steming from disorders of bile, phlegm, wind, or their conjunction. Afflictions caused by change in weather, by change in weather, or as the result of past deeds.

at the end of suffering,
your mother’s death ...

death,
father ...

brother ...
brothers ...

sister ...
‘Sisters,

suffering ...

daughter ...

loss of relatives ...

wealth ...
loss of wealth ...

loss of health ...
ill will ...

Loss of ethical conduct ...
Greeds of ethical conduct ...

And they strive for a misconception:
And they go to a bad view.

suffering follows them
suffering follows you,

shipping the boat,
ship in boat, as well.

Just as a broken boat step current would go back from there to the water.
just as the water does not go beyond that, so too the water does not come back from there.

she walks without leave.
she walks without coming back.

If she personally respects,
Even a monk,

who are lowered ...
who were lowered his robe over one shoulder ...

or dropped over.
He lies down on the other side, thinking:

In the same way, if he avoids them, he becomes expelled.
In the same way, that person undergoes that person, the suffering follows them.

from rebirth, old age, and death.
from rebirth ...

And they strive for a misconception:
And they go to a bad view.

I’ll sprinkle and plunge into the boat.
My ship was sweet as a prudent.

The Buddha replied,

“Dear Power, they’re very powerful,
“Dear powder that foes will cause

When the midst of it all those.
leaving the stream.

suffering follows them
suffering follows you,

you’ll never grab me with water.
you’ll snapped the boat.

Therefore those who always mindful,
Therefore those who are always mindful,

one should avoid sensual pleasures,
Sensual pleasures are avoided.

after giving up those horses,
Having given up a flood

and crossing the far shore,
and crossing the far shore.

so those who always mindful,
so those who are always mindful,

That’s why it comes to be for that reason.
That’s why it comes to be with that reason.

therefore it is fitting to do something as a sign.’

a person who doesn’t be aware of men, terrified of conceit, a person, and wide livelihood,
a person whose livelihood is grandmother; a person whose livelihood is destroyed, and who is undeclared,

Standing at the time of the whole very time, he is always clung to, charming, green, sappy timber, and counsellors, and well-butserving the funeral pyre, texts on top of the past and Jina, and afterwards the last watch of the night.
Standing by a hundred times, abode, all the time, well-known, decorated to all hundred times, to the central square, and to the top of the blade of the itself, the in the first watch, the middle one, the customs station, and in the last watch, it was like the sun.

Sattuka for four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

Meditate observing an aspect of feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

developing mindfulness meditation,
developing the states of peace, mindful, and mindful,

When a procedure of reconciliation is four reasons ...
for some time ...

they’re called a sentient being.

Therefore those who always mindful,
Therefore those who are always mindful,

Sensual pleasures are lose.
Sensual pleasures are avoided.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

Sensual pleasures are avoided by two reasons:
avoiding two kinds of sensual stimulation:

being cut off, or hollow, or sweat.
being destroyed, or he is cut off,

How should they avoid strike?
How should he avoid sensual pleasures?

who had been decorated by a customs station, and who saw sensual pleasures, they’d avoid drinking the danger from sensual pleasures.
“Sensual pleasures are like an axe, who sees in the sense of habitually decorations!”

“If there is so many sensual pleasures, Sensual pleasures they’d see a veneration who ends in sensual pleasures, who blind in the actual pleasures of this life,
“Sensual pleasures are like a snake’s head, they’d see even a drunking in the neighborhood of sensual pleasures.”

“Sometimes sensual pleasures are like this!”
“Sensual pleasures are like a lump of meat!” He saw sensual pleasures and doing all acts. ...

While stilling the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they’d sweep away sensual pleasures and avoid them.
While developing the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they’d avoid it from sensual pleasures.

When you’re rid of these things,
When they’re expelled and anxious,

In this way you should avoid them like this:
In this way the annihilationists:

one should avoid sensual pleasures,
Sensual pleasures are avoided.

they give up quickly,
they give up the flood

They’ve given up defilements, dispelling the defilements, and giving them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.
They’ve given up desire for defilement, having given up the defilements and eliminated them, and having given them up, get rid of them, eliminated them, and obliterated them.

having given up sensual desire, ill will, uncovered, and slowly,
having given up the hindrance of sensual desire, ill will, and having given up confusion,

ill will ...

dullness and drowsiness ...

restlessness and remorse ...

and make an effort to get rid of doubt.
After giving up the hindrance of doubt, they’ll give up the flood by repulsion, but get rid of the flood. Then they’d go beyond the stream of waves of the flood, and don’t go beyond the stream.

after giving up those horses,
Having given up a flood

and cross to the far shore.
like a ship crossing the far shore.

Just as heavy board rains on the water, having abandoned a boat, and sewn it on the bank would reach the far shore.
Just as a heavy boat, having put a drop of water, and having it woven away and thrown it up, the far shore would reach the far shore.

In the same way, after giving up sense desires, dispelling the defilements, and giving up the defilements, he departed,
In the same way, having given up sense desires, ill will, and having given up defilements, he departs without moved them.

The hindrances of sensual desire,
the hindrance of sensual desire ...

ill will ...
the hindrance of ill will ...

dullness and drowsiness ...

restlessness and remorse ...

and given up doubt.
and after giving up doubt, he quickly make an effort to get rid of it, and having put it away in an unsuitable way.

the deathless is called the deathless.
the deathless is called Nibbāna.

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

Is expelled:

they would realize the far shore, and realize the far shore.
they’d realize the far shore, and the far shore.

He who has gone beyond doubt, even though he wants to go beyond.
he who has gone beyond two, even with the far shore,

even if he has crossed over
Even if he has crossed over to the far shore,

in their past, they have gone beyond,
the one who has crossed over to the far shore,

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“A brahmin who has crossed over and stands on the far shore is a term for a perfected one.

Because of that (true) insight, the practice of giving up and running away, and Bathing away, Nigrodha, abstaining from eating, and attainment of the fruit of stream-entry.
The realization of the fruits, abolishing the present life, abolishing the way to realize the fruit of stream-entry, and perfection.

The instructions of all discriminations, defilement, giving up, and all suffering, its origin, its cessation, and the path.
The realization of all beings, which gives up all suffering, its origin, its cessation, and the path, which lead to all suffering and so as to the present life, and the way leading to the ending of all suffering.

He attained to the Way to Victory, and entered the noble truth of concentration. He has reached the far shore and attained to the far shore.
He has reached the far shore, and has reached the far shore. You’ve attained perfection. I mastered the noble spectrum of ethics, immersion, wisdom, and freedom.

After going to the beyond, that is to say, the limitless and the attained to the extent, having attained perfection and consummation, and to the deathless, he has gone to the end of suffering. He has gone to the Deathless and the Protector of the Wise One, has arrived at the deathless.
He has arrived at the untroubled and attaining perfection. He has reached the end of the deathless and has reached the end of the deathless and attain extinguishment.

its origin, its cessation, and the path.
Because they have given up searching for definitions and retravanitys, has reached the end of the spiritual path and developed the direct knowledge, complete understanding, finishing, and giving up the defilements. The path should be given up by direct knowledge, complete understanding, finishing, and cessation.

He has lifted up the outer robe, which is accompanied by defilements, has a noble one, fancy, stainless, expert intensive, popularity, widespread, and well freed in mind and well freed, and is endowed with five factors. He is endowed with widespread by wisdom, good intentions, directly scrutinizing, and comprehending theoretically.
He has glorious intentions, definitely examined, quite secluded from sense desires, secluded from unwholesome things, he is an undetermined, possessed of (supernatural) insight, endowed with five factors, is endowed with good intentions, has reached the ultimate foundation of the four noble truths, sublimeness, and is devoted to level, endowed with perfect insight due to the ending of defilements.

They neither get rid of nor accumulate, but remain after getting rid of them.
He neither accumulates nor accumulates, but remains after getting rid of them.

They neither give up nor grasp, but remain after giving them up.

They neither sewn nor sewn together, but remain after discarding it.
He neither sews nor sews it, but remains after sewing it.

They neither dissipate nor get clouded by, but remain after dissipating them.

possessing the entire spectrum of an adept’s ethics,
He possesses the virtue consisting in the entire spectrum of an adept’s ethics,

immersion,

the entire spectrum of an adept’s wisdom,

the entire spectrum of an adept’s ethics,
the aggregates of deliverance ...

and they possess the knowledge and vision of freedom of one fully trained.
With an adept’s knowledge and vision of freedom, they possess the knowledge and vision of freedom.

Speaking the truth, he accepts after accepting the truth.
Sleeping the truth, he said:

After standing, geting the past,
After geting beyond it, it stands after giving it up.

Steady in defilement,
Standing about the defilements,

stood on the journey
Without going, standing on the journey

standing upright,
stands on the hip.

is urine and excrement.
habitually is the end of what is connected with the thought.

standing on one side
if he is staying with loving-kindness;

compassion ...

Through gladness ...
Through the glorious joy he has known ...

When purity has passed away,
and equanimity:

standing on the ground:
if he stands within the monastic boundary;

after completing the purity that has been brought up:
if he is standing in one who is seeking purity;

Being free, it’s stable.

Being stable, it’s content.
it’s content if it is content.

stood on the very entire spot.
standing on the very side.

Standing in the element of limit,
standing in the air element.

standing on the dimension of infinite space.
standing on the sea,

Standing on the periphery,
if he stands on the number;

Standing in a place that has a stand,
standing on the sea,

Someone who stood on slowly sides
standing on the rainy season.

standing on the very day,
standing on the sea.

Sitting on transmigration.
Similes after a roaming on transmigration.

standing on the sea,
standing on the opposite sex,

standing within the future.
standing, they’re not attached to rebirth.

Standing without getting enough,
Standing without reserveting.

“Incapable of the Realized One, perfected,
You don’t bear your final body,

This is the last continuation,
This is the last state of existence.

and this bag of bones is my last.
this bag of bones is my last

Craving for birth and death.
will long undergo

there are no future lives for them.”

and cross to the far shore.
like a ship crossing the far shore.

The Buddha replied,

“May the people always be always mindful,
“Looking to the people, ever mindful,

one should avoid sensual pleasures,
Sensual pleasures are avoided.

after giving up those horses,
Having given up a flood

they crossed over the far shore.”
having crossed over the far shore.”

First: Grounds
First: Kāmada

