Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

2. Guhaṭṭhakasuttaniddesa

If he tells a secret matter
Then he said to the neighbors,

mindfully, with many kinds of secrets.
mindful, with many feet,

standing on the bank of a river,
for the sake of deludedness in a river,

For that is accomplished in seclusion
For when a long-disposed seclusion is in that way,

Sensual pleasures are not easy to give up.
For the world’s don’t give up sensual pleasures

mindfully, with many kinds of secrets.
Just mindful, with many feet,

But beings have said that being is causality, but they should be told to say.
But even a sentient being has been told to speak to correctly,

expert in the body is what is meant.
neck is what is meant.

‘Giver’ is a term for your body, whether it’s a road, a box, a drill-stick, archer, an arrow’, a pillar, a giant, a creeper, or a key.
‘A body’s secret delicious, poison, dogs, hunters, chariots, or vehicles; or hens, forces, towns, or creepers;

Standing mindfully, they’ve got upset and crushed, got rid of the Buddha,
striken by a cave, heed the tip of the one he was hunger, thirsty, and fliested.

Like one who has thrown onto the wall, the poison that is laughed, or the rough in flaking floor.
Like a fearful of Nāgas, having broken through the drum, (thinking): “After fear is broken, laughing on the Buddha, –

so too a secret, clung to, held up like a grieving.
So it is just like a cave, stucky, stucky, and thrown off a cliff.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Rādha, any desire, greed, relishing, and craving for form; and any attraction, grasping, mental fixation, insistence, and underlying tendencies—

they’re said to be a sentient being.
they’re said to have a sentient being.

The Realized One has given up feeling ...
When feeling ...

perception ...

choices ...

consciousness; and any attraction, grasping, mental fixation, insistence, and underlying tendencies—they’re bound for insistence, and underlying tendencies—
consciousness.

they’re said to be a sentient being.
they’re said to have a sentient being.

sentient beings according to their termination.”
Speaking the tip of the one who gets a sword.

mindfully secretly,
mindful, I’m practicing absorption;

Channa by the six kinds of trouble, the corruptions, the Channa, and the six kinds of troubles. Channa, Channa, Channa, fear and terror, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, Channa, and conceit.
You have much greed, hate, and delusion; Channa with the six kinds of deludedness, Channa with the six kinds of ease, irritability, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, obstinacy, deceit, bad desires, and emptiness.

so that defilements are defiled ...
so that all defilements ...

For all kinds of conduct ...
entirely full of bad conduct ...

given up everyone,
‘Overcome by all herons,

contemplates ...
of all kinds,

entirely ...

One who has skilled in all ways excrements, covered, and restrained in six days.
Skilled in all kinds of ways, covered up, and restrained in the monastery, which is high and low.

mindfully, with many kinds of secrets.
mindful, with many feet,

Delusion is not abandoned in delusion, trickles, diseases, boils, agitation, deviousness, obstinateness, torpor, agitation, and worry, as victory, trickles, etc.,,, or stands on the side of an opening up, stands on the level of view, etc., or length,
Delusion is dried up, ~ steadfastnessed in regard to greed, hate, delusion, or lingering in the steadience of delusion. It is not discontent with the opposite of what is deluded, etc., respected and venerated by the inner bathing length of views, etc., and continued existence remains opposites, subscesses, etc., to the views, and suffering inhibstances, etc., as to the incesses, and he has gone beyond doubts, and uncertainty, etc., to leaneffacement, to lept, to leaneffension, to the views, to leperfacement, to lection, to the one trivial and to leaneffenction, to osimit, to the inction, to nedness

Like this, even though they’re lost,
Like this:

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, there are sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

There are sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

touches known by the body ...

thoughts known by the mind that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.”

Like this, even though they’re lost,
Like this:

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, consciousness remains involved with form, supported by form, founded on form. And with a sprinkle of relishing, it grows, increases, and matures.
“Mendicants, consciousness remains involved with form, supported by form, grounded on form. And with a sprinkle of relishing, it grows, increases, and matures.

Or involved feelings ...
When feeling ...

perception ...

Or consciousness remains involved with choices, supported by choices, grounded on choices. And with a sprinkle of relishing, it grows, increases, and matures.”
consciousness remains involved with choices, supported by choices, grounded on choices. And with a sprinkle of relishing, it grows, increases, and matures.”

Like this, even though they’re lost,
Like this:

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“If there is desire, relishing, and craving for solid food, consciousness becomes established there and grows.
“Mendicants, if there is desire, relishing, and craving for solid food, consciousness becomes established there and grows.

Where consciousness is established and grows, name and form are conceived.

Where name and form are conceived, there is the growth of choices.

Where choices grow, there is rebirth into a new state of existence in the future.

Where there is rebirth into a new state of existence in the future, there is rebirth, old age, and death in the future.

Where there is rebirth, old age, and death in the future, I say this is full of sorrow, anguish, and distress.”

Like this, even though the river current carrying forth.
Like this:

“Mendicants, if there is no desire, relishing, and craving for contact as fuel ...

If there is no desire, relishing, and craving for mental intention as fuel ...

If there is desire, relishing, and craving for consciousness as fuel, consciousness becomes established there and grows.

Where consciousness is established and grows, name and form are conceived.

Where name and form are conceived, there is the growth of choices.

Where choices grow, there is rebirth into a new state of existence in the future.

Where there is rebirth into a new state of existence in the future, there is rebirth, old age, and death in the future.

Where there is rebirth, old age, and death in the future, I say this is full of sorrow, anguish, and distress.”

Like this, even though they’re lost,
Like this:

and delusion left.
delusion is repulsed in delusion.

are said to be the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

Sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

What is the five kinds of sensual stimulation?
What is the five kinds of sensual stimulation that are called sensual stimulation?

Those who have given up the five kinds of sensual stimulation are called ‘confidence’ by adhered to, deceived, belief shoes’ oppressed, and contemptuousness’. They are also called “who have a weapon” .
Those who are satisfied with the five kinds of sensual stimulation continued existence as deceiving the most delightfulness of the world their thoughts. They are devoted to the waves of delusion, anger and enmity, consequences, and the five cords of sense desires.

delusion, being bound up with delusion, clubborn heaps, plunges into a deep lake,
delusion, reeds, falling into delusion, the deluded into delusion, tied up.

standing on the bank of a river,
for the sake of deludedness in a river,

for they are a long-distance shake,
For when a tamed is born of seclusion,

Three seclusions:

The thought of the body, the mind, and the complete in attachment,
The discerning of body and the mind,

What is the body?
What is thereward?

It’s when a mendicant frequents a secluded lodging—a wilderness, the root of a tree, a hill, a ravine, a mountain cave, a charnel ground, a forest, the open air, a heap of straw.

dwelling in body,
dwells contemplating (the nature of) the body in the body,

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrates on walking mindfully alone.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and he walks alone; after walking for alms, he walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrated on walking mindfully.

this body is someone who wants to body.
This is another body.

What is the thought of mind?

For someone who has attained the first absorption, his mind is freed from the hindrances.
For someone who has attained the first absorption, the mind is without hindrances.

For someone who has attained the second absorption, the placing of the mind and keeping it connected were disturbed.
For someone who has attained the second absorption, the placing of the mind and keeping it connected is without placing the mind.

For someone who has attained the third absorption, the mind is free from rapture.
For someone who has attained the third absorption, the mind is unification of mind.

When someone has attained the fourth absorption, pleasure and pain arise in his mind,
For someone who has attained the fourth absorption, pleasure and pain are unperturbed.

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form, and the mind is diverse in perception of diversity.
For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form in the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of variety of perceptions of variety, and the mind is separated from the dimension of infinite space.

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of the dimension of infinite space has vanished.
For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of the dimension of infinite space is diversed.

For someone who has attained the dimension of nothingness, the perception of the dimension of infinite consciousness has been distributed.
For someone who has attained the dimension of nothingness, the perception of the dimension of infinite consciousness is unification of mind.

For someone who has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, the perception of the dimension of nothingness has been disturbed.
For someone who has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, the perception of the dimension of nothingness has been attained.

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and theories of a stream-enterer. And my mind was discovered from that defilements.
Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and forms of precepts and observances, and theobserved of precepts and observances.

There are grossness of sense desires, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
the solitary retreat, and the fetters of sensuality are grossty.

He has gone beyond the fetters of sensuality, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
Without giving up the fetters of sensual desire, the fetters of rebirth, and the underlying tendencies of sensual desire.

In the realm of luminous form, desire for rebirth in the formless realm, conceit, restlessness, and ignorance.
The defilement of forms and sensual desire for rebirth in the realm of luminous form, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance. Their mind is dissipated externally.

this is the feces of mind.
this is the mind end to fathom.

What is it?
What is the attachment to cleft?

These are called the defilements and the aggregates.
These are called the attachments and the defilements (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.

the deathless is what is meant.

It is, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That is, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

this is the end of attachments.
this is the end of attachment.

Secluded from the body and mind, whose mind is pure, bright, without hindrances, joyful, and confident, in minds that person’s suppression.
For the persons in seclusion, a mind that is purified from seclusion and suppressed for the retinue of body and mind, whose minds are pure, who have reached perfect in peace, exceeding in minds of the effacement.

Without seclusion.
Dūsī is a long-distance shooter.

causing themselves, ‘Suppose, lots of feces, urine, spit, plunges, and fevers to sorrow’ when it comes to seclusion, not slowly to the donors of the minds, and not far from seclusion.
caught up in this way, making much of the sixteen pollutants, spears, and fevershrines, caught up in the air, embankment, singing, and including the minds of seclusion, not strikes nearby.

Likewise, the feature of those mortification is referred to as a joint,
Likewise, the mortification in turns backwards in the same way as that of all the mortals, stems, and delusion.

For that is accomplished in seclusion
For when a long-disposed seclusion is in that way,

For the world’s not easy to give up sensual pleasures,
For the world’s don’t give up sensual pleasures,

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

Sense desire for objects and defilements.
Sense desire for objects and defilements,

What is sense desire for objects?

pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. What’s pleasant, painful, or neutral?
She’s loved by sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. Goldens, elephants, horses, bandits, ties, or beasts, or male and female bondservants, villages, towns, cities, and countries.

Sense desire for objects,

Furthermore, past sense desires, future sense desires, present and internal sense desires; internal and external sense desires are inferior; medium, and inferior. Sensual pleasures are superior to the senses of the aggregates are superior; midd, sense desires in the present. Being attached to sensual pleasures are superior to sensual pleasures; mixed up with heavenly forms that are not sensual pleasures.
Sensual pleasures are in the past, future, and present; internal sense desires, external sense desires, inferior and superior; middling and superior; middling and superior; far as sense desires, sense desires, sense desires as objects, sense desires, sense desires, horses, and phenomena; all things are internal and externally given up or external.

These are said to be the sense desires for objects.

What defilements like?
What are the defilements that cause?

sensual desire, greed, relishing, and craving for sensual pleasures, sensual desire, passion for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, infatuation for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, craving for sensual pleasures, craving for sensual pleasures, and craving for sensual pleasures.
Sensual desire, greed, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, passions, attachment, and craving for sensual pleasures.

“I saw the root of sensual pleasures,

you’re struck by desire
you’re a springing by desire!

I won’t strike you,
I won’t think,

So you won’t say that.”
doesn’t follow sensual pleasures.”

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

in the world of the human world, in the world of the gods,
in the world of the gods, expert in the world of the gods,

For the world’s not easy to give up sensual pleasures,
For the world’s don’t give up sensual pleasures,

But sensual pleasures are hard to get past. They’re hard to pass away in the world. They’re hard to get past. They’re hard to pass away, and to surmounts, and to better.
For sensual pleasures are hard to give up, hard to get past, and subtle, and hard to come. They’re hard to bear insistence on sensual pleasures, the inclusion of worry, and hard to survey.

Sensual pleasures are not easy to give up.
For the world’s don’t give up sensual pleasures

The Buddha replied,

I’ve given up many kinds of secrets,
Living a secret (surely) much rain,

standing on the bank of a river,
for the sake of deludedness in a river,

For that is accomplished in seclusion
For when a long-disposed seclusion is in that way,

for sensual pleasures are not good in the world,
For the world’s don’t give up sensual pleasures.”

Desire in the source of rebirth,
Compared to be reborn in hell, the animal realm,

If they don’t like to promise you against the teaching,
But they don’t release it like someone who is poor,

I used to beat the past,
forwards and backwards;

this maintaining in sensual pleasures, in former existences,
like one who has entered upon those first dwelling in worldly pleasures!

Desire comes from desire to be reborn, kind of existence.
Compared to be reborn in hell, the animal realm,

craving is what is meant.

That craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. You have a fixed greed for sensual pleasures. Your desire for sights, greed for sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. Your craving for sights are created.

Desire, they wish,
wishing for the sake of desires because of the source of desires, because of desire:

Desire with desire.
The source of desire

who’ve gone beyond rebirth:
it’s bound for rebirth in the next life.

definitively:
One is said to be one thing:

pleasant feeling,
pleasant feeling.

Two kinds of becoming:
there are two kinds of continued existence:

Happiness and feeling are found,
happiness and brilliant feelings,

Three realms of existence:

whatever vanity is left by life.
you who end the life force,

Four realms of existence:

gain and fame, happiness,
The happiness of possessions, honor, and popularity.

Five kinds of continued existence:

(Desire for) pleasing forms,

pleasing sounds,

pleasing smells,

pleasing tastes,

pleasing tangibles,

Six kinds of continued existence:
Six kinds of rebirth:

The Eye
Eye accomplishment in the eye.

Accomplishment in the ear,
Accomplishment in the same way

The nose is smells.
The nose is through the nose.

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

The end of the body.
Proficiency in physical endurance.

mind is freed.
Possessing the mind,

the bonds of rebirth are bound for rebirth.
bound for rebirth in the future lives,

bound by pleasant feeling, and bound by (feeling) that he is bound to touch,
it’s tied up with pleasant feeling,

bound by bricks in bricks,
bound with bricks,

they’re bound by their own deeds,
The one who is bound by the other,

bound by the Kinsman of the Sun,
bound by jackals;

bound by their life,

bound by gain and honor,

honored by fame,
bound by a fame,

bound by the neck,
bound by the heedless one,

bound by pleasure.
bound by pleasure and pain.

caught up in the agreeable sights,
caught up in the liking,

sounds ...
When you’ve understood the sounds

smells
smells,

tastes,
tastes, too, tastes,

caught up in regard to touches and thoughts,
caught up in the tangibles,

Can sleep in the eye,
bound by the eye,

the nose,
The nose, nose, nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose smells, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
The tongue ...

body body body body,
body body body body body body, body body body body body, body body body body body body body body, body body body body body, body body body body body body, body body body body, body body body body body body.

They’re bound with change and bound, bound up.
Chalimbacks, bound up the abode of mind, tied the fire.

Desire in the source of rebirth,
Compared to be reborn in hell, the animal realm,

They’re not hurtful, and don’t free of enmity or preference to such deeds.
You don’t say it’s hard to teach, you! You don’t are an educated noble disciple to pass away, or sentient beings.

How did you get free of defects?
saying, “What are the pollutants for you?

pleasant feeling, unpleasant feeling,

They released the bricks on the earth,
They’re prosecuted, prosecuted,

They’ve escaped from anger,
If you’re involved in the world,

released me from health, hard to cry:
he released me from the healthy tree.

they’ve given up life.
the life of the impediments—

they’re hard to find again.
the one with gains wisdom.

they’re hard to find a fame.
The one whose clansman

they’re praised by the praise of fools,
you’re released from suffering,

when you’re hard to find happiness.
when you’re in happiness,

they’re likable, undesirable,
pleasing forms, they’re infatuated,

pleasing sounds,

smells,

tastes, tastes, and touches—
tastes, tastes, tastes, touches, and thoughts

they’re hard to find again.
the tangibles are hard to escape.

The eye is hard to see,
the eyes are hard to see,

ear-consciousness,
A earser

the nose,
The nose, nose, nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose smells, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
The tongue ...

body body body body,
body body body body body body, body body body body body, body body body body body body body body, body body body body body, body body body body body body, body body body body, body body body body body body.

They’re hard to find, and insistence, and hard to get past. They’re hard to go beyond this, and hard to pass.
The mind is hard to recognize, the inclination, the depth is hard to attain, the insistence, and the winning of the inclination. The Path is difficult to pass.

Thus, the poison of existence is hard to cross over.
So you’re released from the confined chanting.

How is there seven days ago to free from attachment?
How is sentient beings release from what?

The happiness of feeling is hard-to-seek,
for sentient beings are free of pain.

are the advantages of bricks,
of bricks, stubborns,

you’ll speak from harm.
you’re the one who speaks from wrong,

you release the heart.
you release the (true) health.

life is poor,
for life is hard to escape.

a gainer and respect.
free of greed, hate, and delusion,

They rejoice in fame,
free of fame,

you released the praised.
you’re released from suffering,

happiness is hard;
The happiness is hard;

dear, beloved, and cherished.
dear and beloved by the sights,

pleasing sounds,

smells,

tastes,

released from tangibles.

The Simile of the eye is hard;
The Seer of the eye is hard;

ear-consciousness,
A earser

the nose,
The nose, nose, nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose smells, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose, nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose nose

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
The tongue ...

body ...
body contact ...

It’s hard for someone who takes on topic and gravel. They’re hard to have extract, hard to weeping, blessed, and unshakable. And they’re hard to pass away, welcoming, difficult to get past it.
The mind is hard to recognize, hard to surely hard to excel, hard to bear, hard to get past, and to pass. They’re hard to exceeding, hard to surpass, and hard to go beyond the insistence, and to the incapable of the two.

In this way the sentient beings are badly divided:
This is the wrong way of beings.

they’re hard to understand,
they’re not hard to escape.

For it’s not appropriate for you to filter himself to remove the mud on the bank of the river.
For one who isn’t able to pull out another, nor who is able to lift the legal procedure.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“ Cunda, if you’re sinking down in the mud you can’t pull out someone else who is also sinking down in the mud.
“Those others can’t pull out someone else who is also sinking down in the mud.

Truly, if you’re not tamed, trained, and extinguished you can’t tame, train, and extinguish someone else.”

This being so,
But such a one is to say it.

no one recognized them.
no one can understand

If they’d block their own strength, through their own strength, energy, and vigor, they’ll be practiced by others, and practice the path with its own energy.
If they’d drive obstinate their own strength by energy and violence, all persons by energy and by practiceing them would practice accordingly.

This being so,
But such a one is to say it.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“I will not be able to free

anyone in the world who is having doubts,
there is nothing beyond doubt in the world,

but knowing (Nibbāna), the best thing,

in this way you can cross over the flood.”
In this way you are at your house.”

This being so,
But such a one is to say it.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

For one who has done bad deeds,
For the evil that one does not hurt oneself,

one is corrupted by oneself.

It’s by oneself that evil’s not done,

one is purified by oneself.

The purity of mindfulness is pure.
The purification of one is pure.

no one can purify another.”

This being so,
But such a one is to say it.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“In the same way, though extinguishment is present, the path leading to extinguishment is present, and I am present to encourage them,

still some of my disciples, instructed and advised like this, achieve the ultimate goal, extinguishment, while some of them fail.

What do I do?
What do I do, brahmin?

The Realized One is the one who shows the way.

explains the path to Buddha.
by the Buddha.

By doing this, they’ll freed.”
practice accordingly.”

And they don’t reveal it.
But such a thing happens to another

If they don’t like to promise you against the teaching,
But they don’t release it like someone who is poor,

if she remains before the future;
if she blocks before;

in the future is what is meant.
future is what is meant.

past, future, and present.
Furthermore, past, future, and present,

How do you take pleasure in the past?
How do you act like this?

“I had such form in the past.”
how I had such form in the past.

“I had such feeling ...

“Surely the snake.” ...
That’s how she became someone else. ...

Choices ...
‘I used to be a lamp’ ...

and I had the past consciousness of the past.”
That’s how I had previously possessed the past.”

In this way too, too, the one makes offence.
In this way too, if one makes an end.

Or alternatively, “In the past I had such eyes and such sights.”
Or alternatively, thinking: “So I had such eyes and such sights.”

So they are attached to desire and greed for consciousness:
This is the consciousness of desire and greed for it.

Your desire and greed for consciousness.
consciousness follows along with desire and lust,

Those who repeat it in the past then speak in the same way.
And that’s how you do it.

“In the past I had such ears and such sounds ...
“So I had such ears and such sounds ...

“In the past I had such a nose and such smells ...
“So I had such a nose and such smells.” ...

“In the past I had such a tongue and such tastes ...
his tongue was the past ...

“In the past I had such a body and such touches.” ...
“This body of mine and such touches ...”

“In the past I had such a mind and such thoughts.”

So they are attached to desire and greed for consciousness:
This is the consciousness of desire and greed for it.

Your desire and greed for consciousness.
consciousness follows along with desire and lust,

Those who repeat it in the past then speak in the same way.
And that’s how you do it.

they used to laugh, chat, and enjoy it.
They jobed and laughed with females, and they fir to laugh, and they enjoy it.

In this way too, too, the one makes offence.
In this way too, if one makes an end.

How do they make it get out?
How do you take out?

“‘I have such form in the future’: this is what it means to say.”
how to possess the formless and the.

“... feeling ...
“Seeing this feeling ...

that wisdom ...
that wisdom,

choices ...
‘This is how a choice ...’ ...

and so there I have no faith in the future.”
When this is how consciousness is developed and cultivated it’s.”

In this way too, if she makes one without;
In this way too, if one doesn’t make an end.

A mendicant might think: “May I have such eyes and such sights in the future!”
Or they might think: “May I have such eyes and such sights in the future!”

they gain a mind that is not worthy of gain,
the mind do not receive (any) things,

and when you falter amid presently arisen it.
and being contemplated by the mind.

Though it’s given, they don’t make a wish.
one who takes pleasure in that, and who does not make a statement.

“May I have such ears and such sounds ...

“May I think this would be like that.”
“May I have such a nose and such smells ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
what the ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

“May it be, future, and present.”
“‘May I have such a body and such touches ...’?” ...

“May my mind exists in the future.”
“May my mind be in the future!”

they gain a mind that is not worthy of gain,
the mind do not receive (any) things,

and when you falter amid presently arisen it.
and being contemplated by the mind.

Though it’s given, they don’t make a wish.
one who takes pleasure in that, and who does not make a statement.

but they thought, “By this precept or observance or mortification or spiritual life, may I become one of the gods!”
Then they say: “By this precept or observance or mortification or spiritual life, may I become one of the gods!”

they gain a mind that is not worthy of gain,
the mind do not receive (any) things,

and when you falter amid presently arisen it.
and being contemplated by the mind.

Without giving some food, they don’t make it see.
Next, if you take pleasure in it, then you make it see that.

I used to beat the past,
forwards and backwards;

they’re the meditators of these first three sensual pleasures.
they’re the one who should live in dependence on sensual pleasures.

But these five kinds of sensual stimulation: delight in the present, desire to attain and recommendation.
These very desires delight in the presently to desire, having gone about the five strands of sense pleasure in the present.

Forest, although these five kinds of sensual stimulation may be disperse, giving up the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
In the past, future, and present.

this maintaining in sensual pleasures, in former existences,
like one who has entered upon those first dwelling in worldly pleasures!

The Buddha replied,

“Will they be reborn in a lower realm,
“Those desires be reborn in hell,

If they don’t like to promise you against the teaching,
But they don’t release it like someone who is poor,

I used to beat the past,
forwards and backwards;

this mass of sensual pleasures, in the first wound.”
they’re the first kind of sensual pleasures in the first absorption.”

greedy for sense pleasures, being negligent,
greedy for sensual pleasures, her wounds,

(and) taking care of your fire, I have no fixed destiny.
roaming on all sides—

those cried and lamented.
The wails lamentation.

What will we do?’
what will we do?

greedy for sense pleasures, being negligent, and mindful.
greed for sensual pleasures, flatterers, and runs away.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements that defilement.
These are said to be the defilements.

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

They get tied, infatuated, and collapse, greedy, tied, infatuated, and indulgent and fall into greed.
They are greedy for sense pleasures, tied, infatuated, and attached to the Buddhas, greedyed. And they get tied, infatuated, and indulgent:

greedy for sensual pleasures.
greedy for sensual pleasures,

Those who seek sensual pleasures. They seek a way that is free from impartially, by a power of the rations. Those might become faded away intent on account of that.
Even those who seek sensual pleasures seek for; they are seek for what is. Those who seek austerities (those) by. Those who seek him austerities of (goods) conduct, wish for sensual pleasures.

searching for form ...
And those who seek Craving for form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

touches ...

Saying, “Various”, the hot springs up in sensual pleasures, and the mortification in sensual pleasures of the life span is found on that account.
Saying, “Inclination, owing to the fact that he is austerities of the hearts. Yett when a corresponding produces thirst for sensual pleasures.

Even those who obtain craving ...
And those who acquire craving at form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

Contact, they’re drunk, young, neglected to the fifteenth day of the Master interest.
Contact, touches, and thoughts are upset by the authority to him. Intention, when you’re actually delighted with that.

And those who enjoy craving in it,
And those who enjoy craving in regard to form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They enjoy tangibles, the self-mortification, and the hot springs up in on that very same day.
In the tangibles, the self-mortification in the body, the self-mortification in eating, and the practice that leads to such a way.

He just as a farmer cut off his cattle and workers with his domesticated (would allow) to get absorptions?
He just as the domesticated workers on logice, workers from the palace, (wrongs) deeds, sought in absorption,

In the same way, those seeking for sensual pleasures. They practice accordingly, when it comes to the scorching of the life-continuum and the mortification.
In the same way, those searches for sensual pleasures, by which they continue to practice.

searching for form ...
And those who seek Craving for form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

touches ...

Saying, “Various”, the hot springs up in sensual pleasures, and the mortification in sensual pleasures of the life span is found on that account.
Saying, “Inclination, owing to the fact that he is austerities of the hearts. Yett when a corresponding produces thirst for sensual pleasures.

Even those who obtain craving ...
And those who acquire craving at form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

Contact, they’re drunk, young, neglected to the fifteenth day of the Master interest.
Contact, touches, and thoughts are upset by the authority to him. Intention, when you’re actually delighted with that.

And those who enjoy craving in it,
And those who enjoy craving in regard to form ...

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They enjoy tangibles, the self-mortification, and the hot springs up in on that very same day.
In the tangibles, the self-mortification in the body, the self-mortification in eating, and the practice that leads to such a way.

Devas, consciously deceived, crushed, and branches of the five kinds of sensual stimulation are blinded: weeping, hidden, infatuated, and blinded, wailing and deceived, weighed up and wrinkledly pressed.
Bulls, stopping, thinking: “Among the five kinds of sensual stimulation are loyal to enjoyment, consolidated with a sense of urgency, hidden iron belly, opposite, and deceitful.”

greedy for sense pleasures, being negligent,
greedy for sensual pleasures, her wounds,

(and) taking care of your rough.
alternatively, endlessly,

Yet they go, seen, heard, or suspected that they are called “luxte;”
Yet they go, saying: “I’ve gone vanity.” These things aren’t referred to the Buddhas, and they don’t teach the belief of the bodies of the Buddhas.

I saw those who had not given there
and said: “She’s leftovers.”

How do you take things?

They go to hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm. They say,
go to hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm.”

I saw those who had not given there
and said: “She’s leftovers.”

How are they said to be stingy?
and how are they stingy?

Five kinds of stinginess:

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such stinginess is called bitterness because of fingers, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, and fishing.
Such talk about jealousy, stinginess, deceitfulness, waves, having softwood, is called the best of the bitterness of the waves.

However, being stinginess, generosity, and stinginess.
However, there is stinginess regarding the constituents obstinacy with the jealousy and stinginess.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Being stingy with this, one who has stingy, and (because of) foulness,
When they are jealous of stinginess, they are endowed with these people.

That’s how they’re called stingy.
In this way one who is stingy, and devious.

How do they reply to their disciples?
How do they discuss the Buddha’s words?

I saw those who had not given there
and said: “She’s leftovers.”

They don’t want to listen to the teachings of the Buddhas. They don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand. They don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand. They don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand.
They don’t attend on the word of the Buddhas. They don’t want to listen to the teachings of the Buddhas. They don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand. They don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand.

In this way the disciples, discussing what they were taught, being neither too hot nor too cold, they remain unfinished.
When his disciples have been taught like this, they don’t discuss the Buddha, and the instructions don’t proceed.

I saw those who had not given there
and said: “She’s leftovers.”

They acts unevenly disciplined bodily action,
They roam out the disciplinary issues.

verbal action
Views of speech,

steady in mind,
roaming the mind,

Killing living creatures, stealing,
Killing living creatures, considerate,

Stealing in stealing,
Stealing in the air—

who understand sexual misconduct.
They’re unconfused,

who lies uneven grounded.
They lie down roughly violently.

divisive speech ...

harsh speech ...

talking nonsense ...

Covetousness, excitement,
Compassionate, committed to absorption,

malicious ...
ill will ...

beings who have wrong view
wrong view, ~ approving the wrong way,

thoughts that have a fixed destiny,
about conditions,

along with the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
Clinging to the five strands of sense pleasure,

When the five hindrances are placed, they’re caught up in the five hindrances, and they’re released from the Buddhas.
When the five hindrances are placed, they set up, peaked, and lay down to rest. They’re tied up, they’re unable to get hold of them.

(and) taking care of your fire, I have no fixed destiny.
roaming on all sides—

After lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress,
The wailing and lamentation,

those who have reached suffering as suffering, who have reached the end of suffering,
who reached suffering as suffering, who has reached the end of suffering.

Desiring Māra’s (realm) strange Māra’s (and),
Māra’s bondservants who have gone (Stop) Māra’s attainment;

Death of death, they have reached death.
and have reached death as death.

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion:

those cried and lamented.
The wails lamentation.

What will we die?’
What am we going from here? What will we do?’

We will not delight in meditation,
We shall be no delight,

we will be animals,
we will be the animal realm,

we will delight in the ghost realm.
we shall be his departed.

We shall be human,
We shall offer you,

we shall gods.
We shall be like the gods!

We will have form,
We shall have form

we will be formless,
We shall be like the formless,

We will become percipient.
We shall become percipient.

We will become percipient.
We shall become percipient.

We will neither percipient nor non-percipient.
We will neither percipient nor non-percipient,

“Will we exist in the future?

Did we not exist in the future?

What will we exist in the future?
What will we be in the future?

How will we be in the future?

After being what, we will become in the future?”
After being what, what will we become in the future?”

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion:

What will we do?’
what will we do?

The Buddha replied,

“Dears in regard to sense pleasures, when you have fallen off,
“They are greedy for sense pleasures, they’re upright and falling into negligence,

(and) taking care of your fire, I have no fixed destiny.
roaming on all sides—

those cried and lamented.
The wails lamentation.

What’s the point of returning from here?”
What do we shall we die from here?”

So let them train right here.
So let the training here—

Whatever you know in the world
‘Whatever you know in the world

They’d never flew apart on all sides.
Though there were no rough logs,

for the wise say this life is short,

Therefore he should train right here:
So you should train like this:

That’s why it comes to be for that reason.
And so it’s because of that reason that the source of that.

therefore it is fitting to do something as a sign.’

Three trainings:

in higher ethics, higher mind, and higher wisdom.

What is the training in the higher ethics?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

Someone who is exceedingly pure in ethics, the destiny and the failure in ethics, and the failure in morality of virtue.
Harmless virtue is the excellence of ethics, the restraint and the embracing that virtue is the restraint of wholesome qualities and the embracing skillful qualities.

this is the training in the higher ethics.

What is the training in the higher mind?

Now, take a mendicant who, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.
Take a mendicant who, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.

As the placing of the mind and keeping it connected are stilled, they enter and remain in the second absorption ...
second absorption ...

And with the fading away of rapture, they enter and remain in the third absorption, where they meditate with equanimity, mindful and aware, personally experiencing the bliss of which the noble ones declare, “Equanimous and mindful, one meditates in bliss.”
third absorption ...

Giving up pleasure and pain, and ending former happiness and sadness, they enter and remain in the fourth absorption, without pleasure or pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness.

These are the higher mind.
This is the training in the higher mind.

What is the training in the higher wisdom?
in the higher wisdom?

It’s for a mendicant who’s wise. They have the wisdom of arising and passing away which is noble, penetrative, and leads to the complete ending of suffering.

They truly understand: “This is suffering” ... “This is the origin of suffering” ... “This is the cessation of suffering” ... “This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”.

They truly understand: “These are defilements”... “This is the origin of defilements” ...
They truly understand the defilements ...

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

were to train in these three trainings:
are these three trainings today in attack the training.

He should know this:
He should know what is to be done,

Seeing this, you should train yourself:
Seeing the training,

trained in this way,
you should train like this:

were to apply the mind in samādhi,
were to train in mind,

can train in faith,
He should train in faith:

were to train in energy,
one should train in energy,

and mindfulness established,
and mindfulness was attending to the training.

would train in stilling the mind.
would train in stilling the mind:

But you should train in wisdom.
But you should train in wisdom:

in what is suitable, should you know,
in what is suitable, to understand the training;

who should completely understand what should be completely understood,
who should understand what should be completely understood,

should be given up.
you should give up what should be given up.

developing mindfulness meditation -
developing mindfulness of breathing should be developed.

you should undertake and follow the training rules.
you should train yourselves. You should train yourselves like this: ‘We will undertake and follow the training.’

Take here in this teaching and training. In this teaching and training they choose life to be eaten, drunk, checked back, and tasted in this teaching and training.
here in this teaching and training: in this teaching and training, in this teaching and training, in the Teacher’s instruction. In this teaching and training, in this teaching and training, in this teaching and training.

hence it is said:
hence it is said: ”

Jotipāla ...
a person, a response, a human being, a hard worker, and a confident.

So let them train right here.
So let the training here—

Whatever you know in the world
‘Whatever you know of a person in the world

Anything that’s a totally and utterly lack of rapture.
Whatever eighty of them is given up in them all, that is called a “secluded” too.

Whatever is conceived
although they arise in someone:

Understanding, they’d know bodily action,
they know unjust manner of body, speech, or mind.

verbal actions that know.
their verbal behavior would know these things.

around mental deeds they know
And they know mind,

Killing living creatures, knowingly, and seeing danger.
Knowledge to kill living creatures.

They’d know stealing.
They know stealing.

sexual misconduct ...
Knowledge to commit sexual misconduct.

Legalous, knowing how speaks falsely,
Lying around is an uneven ground,

divisive speech.
divisive speech:

harsh speech ...
He gets harsh words,

talking nonsense.
talking nonsense, he can know talk about talking nonsense.

Talking upwards, they’d know.
Transgresses knowingly,

ill will ...

wrong view, wrong thought, wrong speech.
wrong view:

choices, and they might know.
Knowledge of conditions,

might know about the five kinds of sensual stimulation,
he knowingly entertains the five strands of sense pleasure,

If he knows five hindrances, he would understand
They would understand undisturbedly, if you’d understand, let them know.

The world in the world looks about the world.
‘In the world looks proportionally ...

Whatever you know in the world
‘Whatever you know in the world

Those who are unconcealed in a separate ways:
Through an entrance:

Understanding bodily deeds, he would not live unevenly,
Since bodily actions are uneven, they wouldn’t have a cause,

verbal actions that have cause and reasons.
Someone whose speech is undistorted.

Someone whose mind is causality, one who does not deceit,
(But) a man who has no cause or condition, he should avoid it.

Someone who never kills living creatures.
Since he has no cause or reason, he might not give it up,

Stealing cause, not stealing, he would not lose his cause.
Stealing without stealing, one who doesn’t get caught up in speech,

sexual misconduct ...
Sexual misconduct is causality, and lacking regard for (them) to a cause,

(may they would not lie) uneven ground,
Someone who has caused a decision, one should not live (any) a cause,

divisive speech ...

harsh speech ...
he can’t get causalous speech with harsh speech,

he would avoid talking nonsense.
he wouldn’t talk nonsense,

Covetousness is a cause of welcome.
Since he is caught up in covetousness, he should not live (happily).

(may) ill will, unwill will not be caused by reason,
ill will ...

Who has wrong view, but would not be uneven.
one who has wrong view would avoid being uneven and cause,

driven out the causes, he would not be uneven.
it wouldn’t cause or reason to avoid these (mental) processes.

who have a cause of (good) these five kinds of sensual stimulation would never produce
(some of) the five strands of sense pleasure should live unevenly.

(thinking): these five hindrances will not perish
who have no hindrances, these five hindrances can live (after) a cause,

If he were to quarrel in the unjust mind, he wouldn’t have destroyed (the Dhamma).
Through uneven ground, one who does not have cause,

he wouldn’t uneven ground,
he wouldn’t have a cause,

One should not undertake and follow the caravan forces.’
You should not undertake and follow the extent of various kinds of calm, and don’t undertake them.

They’d never flew apart on all sides.
Though there were no rough logs,

for the wise say this life is short,

life faculty, continuity, and life.
(There is) the life faculty, which is endless, a continuation, (having) a life faculty, which is the restraint of life,

Rather, you may live for two reasons:
However, there are two kinds of people:

Is eating little or little, little, little, measureless life would live.
Is that lasting little or that life is short, extensive, limited,

How with the end of remaining unfortunate life?
Who is striving towards the end of life?

In the past conscious moment not he did live, not he will live.”
In the past conscious moment not he did live, he does live, he will live.

In a future conscious moment not he did live, not he does live, he will live.

In the present conscious moment not he did live, not he will live.”
In the present conscious moment not he did live, he does live, not he will live.”

“Living in life-form,
“Life life-form and protection,

or feel pleasure and pain,
or feel pleasure and pain:

unified in mind,
calmed thoughts,

it’s like a flame,
the very moment I will pull out

I have a thousand leagues.”
she was well-spheresed.

stand for the eon.
these (etc.) means those who live indeed.

But they don’t live as alive.
But they still don’t live.

Two parts of their mind is restrained;
Two parts of the mind.

Those who see the immaculate
“One from all attachments,

Forget they stand here,
or Forget your mind here,

all the aggregates
all the directions,

Without everyone of them, she said:
Without making an offering on trust,

and when there are no broken fires
And when there are no dangers

But those who are unbroken,
and those who are tired,

immediately
the immediately prevented from it.

for none of these has no characteristic.
for one characteristics is uneven.

not reborn in another’s womb,
not reborn in a place,

who lives off presently:
they live presently.

The world is dead and secured by thought,
The world’s home is dead.

What is allowed.
What is allowed:

flowing down to the plains,
flowing along the stream,

by desire,
by desire.

terminators proceed to the rest.
His conduct then:

because of the six sense spheres:
with the six sense-spheres as condition: the six sense-spheres,

Experiencing herons,
ignoble, spotless,

a fool may not come again.
you’re like a fool,

those who are extinguished, and those who are disillusioned
and those who are extinguished,

like a mustard seed off the point of a pin,
like a mustard seed on a needle,

Because of the things
Because of this,

honored by the forest.
honored by the sky.

they fall apart,
Endowed means light.

Through fear of my former wife,
by old age and death.

They look for not to see the sight.
because they see clearly.

While going along the Saṅgha,
while going along the Saṅgha.

and the arising of thought.
like the starting in the sky.

and they’re born.”
and they’re reborn.”

Thus the end of remaining is short,
In this way the end of stagnation and the life of purity

Who are you even with little life?
Who should live diligently, having little life, and his life takes up?

I was bound to the life of absentminded, my life force, and the cutting off of the in-breaths and her life.
and the life of the impediments are not cut off and the bonds of life. They are bound to the priority of life, and they are bound to the life of the impediments and not end of life.

The roots and weakness are weakness,
The root of their weakness is weak

And those who weakness (for) the weakness is weak,
And those who weakness are weak, even those who weak.

They’re weak, constant, feeble, weak, and weak. They are one another—are weak, flawless, and unburning each other with these is always weak.
Even as they are weak, constantly prey,! Those who are weak, without interruption, one another who is weak, a weaker of feeble, scorning, and those who are pregnant.

do not despise each other,
and these are not set aside.

Nothing is found in me.
Even if there is no shelter,

“No filthy ought not having any others.
“No-one can roll away,

while fairies,
and observes all of them,

(Also) these were not developed,
These were the immediately abidings

For those who in the past were dead,
Even if she was dead,

For previously
Formerly the first one too.

bordering on each other, not other.”
each other’s eyes, solitary, and crushing.”

That’s how there is little guilt dwelling with the life of purity.
That’s how there is little guiltness and smallness.

Rather, life is short, brief, and fleeting, people with little dust in their life. They’re short to live in dependence on life. There’s no more lives.
Rather, the gods of the Four Great Kings are short of the gods, but rather than a little. They have little life little life, yet still only grows back. Your life is short, not more than life.

the Gods of the Thirty-Three ...

the Gods of Yama ...

the Joyful Gods ...

the Gods Who Love to Create ...

the Gods Who Control the Creations of Others ...

life, mixed up with the gods, is short, brief, and fleeting, bitter, thanking the life of purity.
the life of the gods of Brahmā’s Host is short, brief, and fleeting, short-lived, exhausted, and living on small for life. Your life isn’t short.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, the life span of humans is short.

We are heading to the next life. We must think about this and wake up! We must do what’s good and lead the spiritual life, for no-one born can escape death.

A long life is a hundred years or a little more.

short, life,
A life span of humans is short,

and a good person scorns it.

They should live as though their head was on fire,

for Death comes for everyone.

rush by night and days,
The days and nights rush by,

and then life is cut short.

The life of mortals is running out.
The life of mortals keeps running away.

like grass in the water.”
like water bathing in the river.

for the wise say this life is short,

The wise Hero, having compassion for oneself, renown, ~ the wise one is austerity to be tamed, many.
The wise ones who is firmly resolved by the wise, because they have fallen into (only), the wise one is starting.

one is what is meant.
is what is meant.

And wisdom, which is founded on eradication, observes the state of experts investigation of (the nature of) things, produced by wisdom, extensiveness, sharesiveness, wisdom, and employees the sense faculty, wisdom, and right view.
wisdom, which is the language of wisdom, enlightenment, investigation, enlightenment, questioning, states, wisdom, having insight, wisdom, and worry, wisdom, the state of wielding wisdom, the state of language of wisdom, and the state of enlightenment of wisdom. Comprehending wisdom, the wise one, possesses wisdom.

Furthermore, Rādha, Rāsiya, reference to the inferior elements, inferior sense doors, inferior mindfulness, and superior. It’s inferior and superior, far or near, far shore. And they give rise to the opportunity to extinguishment.
Rather, they have given up the elements of inferiority and superiority, crumble, inferiority, superiority, and nearby. They give rise to inferior desires, affection, infatuation, thirst, and passions. They are the path to queenching. They have the wives, the path to extinguishment, the worry, the path to extinguishment.

The wise ones said,

“Indeed there is little bit of life, little bait of life, and life is short, his life is short, not even more lives.”
“For a person who lives life little, having little life, is short, little, little is longer than life. Your life is short, not even more longer.”

They replied,
They tell him,

for the wise say this life is short,

The Buddha replied,

“Even if you want to train right here,
“You should train right here, go to Jantugāma.

Whatever you know in the world
‘Whatever you know in the world

They’d never flew apart on all sides.
Though there were no rough logs,

for the wise say this life is short.”
for the wise say this is short.”

I see the fault in the world
I see a fault in the world

We have given up craving for future lives.
those who go to the realm of the gods,

“One shouldn’t apprehend the mouth of a mortal.”
Painful is the inferior mortals in his mouth.

without craving, without attachment,
If you’re not rid of craving for rebirth in this or that state,

I see (it) after touching the world,
I see (only) coming to an end,

“I see him, too, the eye of clairaudience that is clear, and I saw him with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, I see him.
I see him with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, I see him. I see visions the eye of the Buddha, nor do I see him.

in the world of the human world, in the world of the gods,
in the world of the gods, expert in the world of the gods,

Cut off the drivers, the vanity of craving,
Craving for lingering the dart of craving, the non-willer of the craving.

and is taking care of the views.
when you go to the ground for views,

ding the defilements,
Giving up the defilements,

when buried (tom) ornaments,
leaving behind the one’s riches,

who have resultant deeds,
those who go through quarrels,

The tailling of misconduct
and placed on the road.

enjoying passion and hatred,
to enjoy passion and hatred,

being hurtful, stinking, and cast off afflicted by hate,
When a person is defeated by hate,

feverish, by delusion,
fish by delusion,

who’s bound by conceit,
When you’re bound by conceit,

and plucked into the parks.
for the park to give up views.

after overexertion and scattered, with thickness,
Agitation overpowered by the wind, when defilement

and doubt regarding the undeclared,
doubt, conceit, and doubt.

We have come with those ornaments,
We go to the Lord of the Death,

We’ll receive gain and honor,
The gaining material possessions

Though gaining gain
gaining loss,

Because of the power of fame
When the one who is strikes out of fame,

Though with the non-greed
When a person is struck by a snake,

is praised by the astute,
is praised by the astute

I blameworthy,
I’ve fallen theft of blame

When you’re happy with happiness,
When you’re able to know the happiness

have come to suffering again and again,
when you have fallen into suffering,

of birth and death,
when rebirth is old,

now old, it’s out of old age.
The old age, like—

I was driven by the sickness
When sickness is falling apart,

through death,
The death of death through the power of death

grief, lamentation, pain, sorrow, and despair,
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

don’t trap me with pain,
don’t get close to pain.

trickling with the animal realm,
(From the animal realm) with weapons,

when they have come to an end, suffering by grief,
by one who has fallen into pains with suffering.

who is transgressed with suffering,
those who have given up suffering.

suffered by the pregnant root it, when speared,
When overcome by the womb of suffering,

after remaining in abortion with painful feeling,
on account of the pregnant and steps;

after emerging from the womb for those with suffering,
who is pregnant by all suffering, rooted in suffering,

when born they are born, suffering, and (thinking):
after being reborn in a lower realm, they have painful pain.

he would cut off his wrapped pain by others.
it would be painful to get past suffering,

after going away with the sun—
through excessive suffering,

through what is other suffering?
through suffering other suffering,

suffering, origin, path,
saw with suffering,

the suffering inherent in conditions,
foolishness with the dart of choices,

and change in pain,
and perishing through the perishing of suffering,

who is the eye of all suffering, the suffering is started (for them),
seers of suffering through the eye.

They’re more pain than a more senior grieve
and comes to those who are better in suffering,

nose ...

tongue ...
tongue,

body ...

a monkey,
a load of head,

one without an ear-holes ...
one without an ear,

disease,
a disease,

fire with water ...
between the two wombs ...

feeding together ...
a crow ...

the anus ...
that deliverance ...

generally ...
because of one’s mind,

gives ...
give ...

old age,

one with a disease as an axe,
a disease,

freed ...
semen is emitted ...

one paralyzed on one side,
for one paralyzed on one side ...

Sūra,
Sūrapaka,

disrobes ...
for the sake of deception ...

Kuṇāla ...
with an axe,

one with goiter,
treasury ...

defilements ...
corruption,

They don’t regard the ear ...
earns ...

vanity ...
deceitful ...

Giving ...
you should give ...

Kaṇḍuka,
the dropping of the snake,

Kaccāna ...

Excellent,
Experiential confidence in the teaching,

if a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion ...
for one who has caused a schism in the Sangha,

with one who has caused but not red ...
If he causes another to bleed,

Perhaps the mind is delivered ...
a father ...

with honey ...
Madhurā ...

...”

border ...
by love ...

arrangement ...
ties,

affliction,
afflictions arising from excessiveness,

afflictions arising from excessive phlegm,
afflictions arising from a physician ...

affliction ...
afflictions arising from a wind ...

a consequence ...
a concept ...

afflictions born of contact ...
afflictions born of a change of season ...

afflictions ...

affliction ...

afflictions born of deeds ...
afflictions from a result of past deeds ...

cold ...

hot in the heat,
warm himself,

nose dropping ...
one without an ear,

He ascended the palace ...
ascending the palace ...

relics,
sugarcane,

Seeing danger ...
Seeing the danger ...

touched by flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

your mother is pain ...
your mother is deaf

because of his love ...
a father ...

with a brother ...
with a burden put down ...

suffering ...

with suffering as a refuge ...
suffering ...

daughter ...

Families of relatives ...
loss of relatives ...

wealth ...

or loss of health ...
If he ...

of ethics ...

I see the shameless views, trickles, and wielding of views. I see an obstacle to do so.
I see the scorning to come by views. I’m able to make an end of suffering. I see the scornments of my views. I’m skilled and go about to winning my own way. I’m able to examine the instructions.

I see the fault in the world
I see a fault in the world

We go to this wanting, in the future.
let go of this attachment to the future.

Passing during beings,
people understand beings’ attachments.

craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

Craving for the future, the conceit ‘I am’ is rid of craving for the future’, and craving for being overcome by craving.
Craving for craving, attacking, and craving for the future.

Existence in sensual becoming: in the formless realm, the realm of luminous form, and the formless realm.
The future rebirth in the sensual realm, the realm of luminous form, and the formless realm.

We have given up craving for future lives.
those who go to the realm of the gods,

Death’s do not affect him by his mouth.
Death’s mouth,

inferiority, superiority, beautiful, or ugly.
inferiority, superior, beautiful, and ugly.

inferior speech, endowed with (volitional) verbal actions,
inferior speech, endowed with inferior speech,

inferior mind agrees with inferior mind, inferior and superior.
inferior mind, endowed with inferior mind, inferior and superior.

inferiority complex, endowed with inferior views,
inferiority, superiority, and superior.

stealing ...

sexual misconduct ...

deliberately lying ...
deliberately lies ...

who refrain from divisive speech ...

who refrain from harsh speech ...
who is rough harsh speech ...

talking nonsense ...

covetousness ...

ill will ...

wrong view ...

inferior choices ...

... the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
lesser life ...

If it is inferior ...

for a bowl ...

inferior age, superior, complex, inferior. It is low, creeper, bitter, hostility, disdain, and ugly.
inferiority complexion of inferiority, superiority, lowering ends, inferiority, superiority, and ugly.

inferior,
Rather, they go to the inferior,

Death comes into his mouth.
Death’s mouth.

Death’s mouth in his mouth.
Death’s mouth.

Death’s reaches a mortals, Death’s attainment,
Those who have lost their minds, (thinking): Death and so on,

Desiring Māra’s (realm) stray, they have gone to Māra’s womb,
Māra’s bondservants who have attained Māra’s delight,

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

“One shouldn’t apprehend the mouth of a mortal.”
Painful is the inferior mortals in his mouth.

not rid of craving for rebirth in this or that state,
beyond craving for rebirth,

craving for sights ...

craving for thoughts.

will be reborn in a future life, there will be no more future lives.
will be reborn again and again,

Existence in sensual realm, in the realm of (them) deeds,
Exist in sensual realm, in the next life,

in the realm of (good) deeds, in the formless realm,
one in the formless realm,

not rebirth into a new state of existence again and again.
they will not be reborn again and again.

again and again in rebirth again.

not free of craving, without craving, without grasping,
without craving, without grasping,

craving for non-delighting, not having given up craving.
craving for those without grasping,

without craving, without attachment,
If you’re not rid of craving for rebirth in this or that state,

The Buddha replied,

“I see in the world who have crossed over,
“I see the faults in the world,

We have given up craving for future lives.
those who go to the realm of the gods,

“One shouldn’t apprehend the mouth of a mortal.”
Painful is the inferior mortals in his mouth.

They’ve not transcended craving for continued existence.”
beyond craving for continued existence.”

See my own conceit, the looking after them,
Seeing danger where there is a moving,

They eat bait just baits and drinks.
and fish that even a small lake.

Witnessing this, they’d
Seeing this, one should live unrivaled,

We greatly enemies, capable of breaking up,
for rebirth in the heavens, strikes, and,

See their mothers, fathers.
Seeing danger when the path is being killed,

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Destroyer of Craving,
Craving for oneself and the astute

What is that craving?
What is craving?

Impermanent that derived from the extent of craving, made known, set up by the limit of a debt, made known, seen, and realized.
From the limit of craving there is a declaration, made up of the four primary elements, and built up by mere before.

carry away my things,
this is my hermitage, this is my grandmother.

this is my self,
this is my hermitage, this is my relative.”

and so on is mine.
and there is this property for me:

thus far is at this point.
no matter how far this is at this point,

forms, sounds, tastes, smells,
Sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are tasted,

Bhaddā slaves, transmigration, Chickens, elephants, horses, and males, and female bondservants in the villages.
Take the right time, Dāsaka, Dāsaka, Bhagu, Khiṇāla, and Similars in the village of Bāhuka, Konāgamana, and Kassapa.

(but) this great earthquake from the whole world,
This greatness in the sea through the whole of craving,

So far as there are these eight hundred and eight cravings.
that is to say: how far deeds have been extended by the four kinds of craving.

This is the mere craving.

What is meant?

Views of twenty years old,
Views of identity view;

Ten wrong views

Ten grounds for views are not attached to.
Ten grounds for views.

That kind of view is attached to it, holding the recipient of views, holding them tight, and refusing to let go, exhausting the recipients of views, wrong thought, wrong speech, wrong action, wrong livelihood, wrong effort, wrong mindfulness, and wrong immersion.
the view that has the recipient and is the recipient of views. From view he holds to views, holding them tight, but is attached to their own views, not holding them tight, but will let them go easily.

Is theories about the future: this is the wrong view.
The view of the self-mortification is right view.

See how the palace was seen, the (whole) do not planted from killing living creatures, stealing, and making a house.
They see what they do.

Without cutting the heads,
cutting down, it fastened.

cuttings,
cut through the stomach.

the cloth is decayed and perishable.
They wear one’s oppressed, and perishes.

even the collapsed.
Even when the streams fall,

They flew about, swept away, and break into tricks.
They sweep away the fish, warning, and breaking up their limbs withdrew to swelling.

Thus while being taught like this, you will see flattering and slaughtering. Your try hard and try hard to find an end. You should examine the meaning of this:
danger when being killed, accumulated, and doing so, having slaughtered in would see an end, investigating, exploring, and incapable of reaching the end of the looking at it.

See my own conceit, the looking after them,
Seeing danger where there is a moving,

They eat bait just baits and drink.
and fish that even a small thing.

Just as a little baby bit of water snapped on it, or being drunk from the water and pouring on it, or being sweept away by the mothers and fathers.
While the animal was being transferred to by the water, the lairs, squeezing and tried to powder their flour, thrilling backs, and beating their breasts.

so too the people who are bearers and fickle are putrid, and pride.
so too the one whose cloth is cut, and who is folk and persuaded

Without cutting the heads,
cutting down, it fastened.

cuttings,
cut through the stomach.

the cloth is decayed and perishable.
They do so.

even the collapsed.
Even when the streams fall,

They pierced and cramped them, and they swell them away, saying,
They swep away the fish and inflict, warning and floating their limbs withdrawn:

They eat bait just baits and drinks.
and fish that even a small lake.

Seeing this, one would take it away.
Seeing this:

Seeing this drawback, they keep themselves healthy and whole. And after doing it, they perish.
Seeing this drawback, he saw the drawbacks, and he developed them.

after seeing them,
Having seen him, at this time, the Lord of the World,

Delighting, I’ve had two sons:
‘We would have two sons:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

Giving up craving, after making a view of Vision, they relinquish this view to us.
They give up craving and diverse view, having given up the eye of using the ears, bent over the nose of us, ears, nose, tongue, body, and mind. They up body, speech, and mind, saying:

sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. ...
sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts ...

... to a family ...
... obtains ...

praise ...

a robe ...

almsfood ...
alms-food ...

... furniture ...
furniture ...

...
who’s sick,

sensuality ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

the formless realm ...

continued existence ...
sensual pleasures, craving to continue existence, and craving to end existence.

continued existence ...

They truly understand form ...
form ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

continued existence ...

It is the five kinds of choice ...
four blessings ...

past ...

If he doesn’t, we’ll take care of the teaching, and don’t want to die, he’d be do what they haven’t seen, heard, and suspend others.
He would not be able to formless in the teaching. And he might live without doing this.

Witnessing this, they’d
Seeing this, one should live unrivaled,

He hunts those free from becoming , thus he is going about.
to be heedlessly:

Existence in sensual becoming, in the formless realm,
Existence in the sensual realm, the realm of luminous form,

this is called craving.
Craving is what is called.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

He hunts those free from becoming , thus he is going about.
to be heedlessly:

Not being discarded, they continue to rebirth in a state of existence. Rebirth is produced by greed, hate, and delusion.
When continued existence in a state of existence they don’t inflict their own desire, greed, hate, and delusion.

We greatly enemies, capable of breaking up,
for rebirth in the heavens, strikes, and,

The Buddha replied,

“Like deer when we see
“Looking when they’re seen riches,

They eat bait just baits and drinks.
and fish that even a small lake.

Witnessing this, they’d
Seeing this, one should live unrivaled,

you won’t escape yourself.”
what you’ve done for.”

both of them.
both of these two kinds,

When you’ve fully understood the contacts of non-confusion,
when you’re fully understood contact, greedy:

When one is taken to go away
when the one takes (who was) greatly desired to go away,

Nor does the wise man who has seen (him),
the wise one who has seen (them),

Both on both sides:
Interest regarding both:

The end of the contact is the second end. The dimension of contact is the second end. ...
The end of contact is one end. The second end is the second end. The origin of the world is the embodiment, the end of feeling, the dimension of infinite space, the dimension of infinite consciousness, the dimension of nothingness, and the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception. One is the second end of feeling.

Sensual desire, greed, relishing, and craving for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, infatuation for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, and craving for sensual pleasures.
Sensual desire, greed, relishing, and craving for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, passion for sensual pleasures, and craving for sensual pleasures.

Both are drunk while they’re inferential for these two, but if they were to give up desire, eliminate them, and obliterate them, they’d give them up.
In both places they’d give up desire, ill will, witness, and witness.

both of them.
both of these two kinds,

When you’re fully understood contact, dullness and drowsiness fill your.
when you’re fully understood contact, greedy:

contact through the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind.
Contact through the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind.

This is called contact.

contact, and having completely understood the three contacts of contact, he cooks them:
contact, he sweps the full understanding of contact with three contacts:

They completely understand relatives,
and completely understanding the course of relatives,

What is completely understood?
What is the end of relatives?

They know contact,
They know contact:

That is: contact, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
This is that contact.

This is the completely understood.
this is the end of relatives,

What are the three completely understood?
What are the three perils that completely understand?

Having done so, he does something contact with her.
Having made a contact with the (good) relatives,

When someone has gone to the impermanence of suffering as diseased, and a dart from the bonds of others, with no afflictions as their origin, as a diseased, as an abscess, and as a dart, as misery, as an affliction, as alien, as falling apart, as empty, as not-self.
When they’re impermanent, suffering, and perishable, they’re a dart of diseases, afflicted with a dart, suffering, and observed. And as they do so—and a disease, a poison, burning, blazing, and glowing. Both the drawbacks, and not liable to originate, they are unable to grow old.

This is the completely understood.
This is the way of completely understanding.

What, which, having completely understood?
What is the completely understanding of giving up?

After giving up desire and greed, they give up desire and greed for contact.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, give up desire and greed for contact.

That contact will be given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.”
The contact will be given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.”

This is the completely understanding of giving up.
This is the end of giving up.

Having completely understood contact,
when contacts, he completely understands contact:

When these three contacts are completely understood,
After completely understanding these three contacts,

and greedy.
greedy:

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

who has abandoned the swallowing and cut off, who has gone beyond the vicinity of fear and disgust, is said to be the best kind of knowledge.
One who has abandoned the distinction, who has cut off the defilements, who is unmoved, who has cut off the vitality, and who is unknown to the aggregates, is said to be the best.

That greed for forms, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
That form is greedy for sounds, but is not successful, prosperous, popular, odor, scent, and so on.

An astute person ...
in a dwelling ...

praise ...

alms-food ...

furniture ...
fermented urine ...

the relics of medicines ...
the requisite of medicine for the sick ...

The sight element,
the form element,

formless,
the formless realm ...

sensual pleasures,
sensual pleasures ...

sights ...

from disgregation ...
formless ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

They don’t realize any kind of feeling ...
continued existence ...

four days ...
four bullocks,

In the past ...

Someone who is freed in regard to things that seem they are rid of greed, hate, and delusion. They’re rid of greed, hate, delusion, and ignorance. They’ve given up when they haven’t got rid of greed, hate, and delusion.
Without attachments, the houseless one, unconfused about things. They’ve got rid of greed, hate, and delusion. They live happily without greed, hate, and delusion.

When you’ve fully understood the contacts of non-confusion,
when you’re fully understood contact, greedy:

When he is taken on what is essential,
When one takes that warrior admir,

Whatever his (permission) with:
Whatever is known as ‘profit’,

he criticizes those two kinds of satisfaction, saying,
He criticizes those two kinds of self-mortification.

Because they’ve done what was done,
legal procedures done by an incomplete assembly,

And how are they criticized and denigrate?
And how do they criticize those who don’t take self?

I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.
I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind, and body.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve made such killing living creatures.
I’ve done it, I don’t kill living creatures.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve given up stealing.
I’ve done what I don’t steal.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve done bad things.”
I’ve given up sexual misconduct.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve made a lie.”
I’ve done what I’ve done.”

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve done divisively, harsh speech, and right view.
I’ve refrained from divisive speech.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve speaking harshly, and I don’t speak harshly.’
I’ve rough speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve made talking nonsense.”
I talking nonsense,

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve given up covetousness ...

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve made ill will ...
I have made an ill will by worry—

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve realized right view.”
I’ve given up that view.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

So they criticize those who haven’t done what was done,
So it has been done and those who deprive the truth.

I don’t fulfill the precepts ...
‘I haven’t fulfilled the precepts.’

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

When your sense doors are unguarded,
When you’re not guarded, you’re not guarded.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I eat in the deathless:
I know the deathless:

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

dedicated to wakefulness:

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

possessing mindfulness and situational awareness.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I have developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.
I’ve developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I have developed the four right efforts ...
I’ve developed the four right efforts ...

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I have developed the four bases of psychic power ...
I have developed the four bases of psychic power:

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

Undeveloped, the five faculties:
the five faculties:

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

Developed five powers:
the five powers ...

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve developed the seven awakening factors:
I’ve developed the seven awakening factors.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve developed the noble eightfold path ...
I’ve developed the noble eightfold path

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

Not completely understanding suffering,
Suffering is suffering,

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I am given up.
I haven’t given up the origin of suffering.

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

I’ve developed the noble eightfold path

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

cessation, I don’t cast down.
When I had no cessation, I’m unsuitable

they criticize those who don’t.
criticizes oneself.

So they criticize those who haven’t done what was done,
So it has been done and those who deprive the truth.

Not being reprimanded, they continue to be reborn in one of them.
Not being reprimanded in this way, they continue to be reborn in a bad place.

When one is taken to go away
when the one takes (who was) greatly desired to go away,

Nor does the wise man clings to future lives,
the wise one who has seen (them),

There are two kinds of plastering:
there are two kinds of shelter:

Craving, Etc. ...
Craving, and view.

This is the shelter of craving. ...
This is the shell.

This view is the idiot of view.
This is the idea of view.

The Wise One wise Wise One possessed, wise, learned, intelligent,
The Wise One is wise, learned, endowed with wisdom (intelligent) knowledge, the wise one who has developed his knowledge,

The Wise One, after giving up craving for view, and placing them here, does not shake or tremble or get rid of relying on iron couch.
The wise one gives up craving and view, but doesn’t get rid of responsibility or plunge into a lamp, nor is heedless.

They live with a heart free of greed, free of oppressed, free of limits.
They live with a mind free of liberated, liberated, free of oppressed, liberated, detached, my mind free of limits.

Nor does the wise man clings to future lives,
the wise one who has seen (them),

The Buddha replied,

“Desire for things that are promote enthusiasm
“Amongst those who have understood these things,

When you’ve fully understood the contacts of non-confusion,
when you’re fully understood contact, greedy:

When one is taken to go away
when the one takes (who was) greatly desired to go away,

Nor does the wise man who has seen the wise.
the wise are not overcome by attachments.”

perception ...

We are served by the sages, not their masters.
a sage in regard to possessive things, not the a sage.

and non-human beings, free of enmity and ill will,
being smeared with pestles,

does not hope for this world and the next.

perception ...

Perceptions of sensuality, malice, and cruelty— perceptions of sounds, perceptions of smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts—
Perceptions of sensuality, malice, and perceptions of sounds, smells, tastes of ill will, touches, and thoughts.

perception ...

This is called perception.

perception ...

They completely understand relatives,
and completely understanding the course of relatives,

What is completely understood?
What is the end of relatives?

perception ...

This is the perception of sensuality, malice, and perceptions of good will, perceptions of sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. This is the perception of tastes.
This is the perception of sensuality, malice, and perception of ill will. This is the perception of renunciation, good will, and harmlessness. This is the perception of sounds. This is the perception of smells. This is the perception of touches.

This is the completely understood.
this is the end of relatives.

What are the three completely understood?
What are the three perils that completely understand?

Having made such a relative, they convinct him.
Having made such a relative to his relatives,

When a man has gone to the impermanence of suffering as diseased, he a dart from diseases, boils, and as an abscess, as a dart, as misery, as an affliction, as alien, as falling apart,
As to impermanence, he diseases, a dart, sickness, and death. as diseased, as an abscess, as a dart, as misery, as an affliction, and as alien.

There is gratification, drawback, and escape.
comes to an end, gratification, drawback, and escape.

This is the completely understood.
This is the way of completely understanding.

What, which, having completely understood?
What is the completely understanding of giving up?

After giving up desire and greed for perception, he gives up desire and greed for it,
After giving up desire and greed for perception, he gives up desire and greed for it.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, give up desire and greed for perception.

That perception will be given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.”

This is the completely understanding of giving up.
This is the end of giving up.

perception ...

adding, “Which crosses, floods, and people who cross over the flood swiftly, would cross over the flood and readily fall over,
adding, “All the floods, misery, and transmigrations aren’t rid of infatuation, nor will he cross over the flood.”

perception ...

We are watching the night, not the sage.
a sage in regard to those possession of conditions,

Two possessive:
there are two kinds of possession:

craving and view ...
Craving is the possession of craving and views. ...

This is the possession of craving ...

this is the possession of views.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

knowledge of delusion is what is meant.
knowledge is what is meant.

People who possess wisdom ... has attained ...
Such is the difference in both places. ...

Three kinds of sagacity:

Sagacity of body, speech, and mind.

What is sagacity of body?

Physical bodily conduct, verbal, and mental conduct as condition: body, speech, and mind. Avoiding physical contact with the three kinds of bodily action, knowledge, the cessation of bodily action, and the practice that leads to the cessation of bodily action.
Purpose three kinds of bodily conduct, speech, and mind, the path that leads to physical contact with three kinds of bodily conduct, mentally, and these three kinds of bodily action, these four kinds of contact should be completely understood.

this body, speech, and mind.
This is sagacity of body.

What is sagacity of speech?

fourfold by way of speech, speech, and mind.
all four kinds of verbal conduct, speech, and mind. ...

this is purity of speech.

What is sagacity of mind?

putting aside in actions of mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact.
savings of mind is three kinds of mental conduct. ... restraint is the spiritual life for the end of mental conduct.

this is sagacity of mind.

“A sage in body, a sage in speech,
“A sage in body

a sage undefiled in mind;

a sage, blessed with sagacity,

he has given up everything, they say.

sages in body, speech, and mind.
Streams gentleness to their body.

a sage undefiled in mind;

a sage, blessed with sagacity,

has washed off all bad things, they say.”

Six kinds of sagacity:
When someone has these three qualities, Mucalinda.

For the one who is delighted, pleasing to the highest (form),
having gone to the pleasing (again), freely ~ living the honestly,

What are the delightful?
What is the delightful?

And those that have not seen and heard about this.
The householder, among those who have seen the Truth,

these are the delightful ones.
these homes are the essentials.

What’s the one who’s happy?
What is the delightful?

Those who have gone forth seen that How should be known, thinking,
Those who have gone forth in seen the realm—

these are the ignoble ones.
are the essentials of the homeless life.

Seven trainees, who are trainees,
Seven on the seventh trainees,

and have become a perfected one,
and are the perfected ones.

Paccekabuddhas, and Buddhas awakened for themselves,
Independent Buddhas descended from the Paccekabuddhas,

they are called ‘a sage’.
the sages, the Realised Ones, the Worthy Ones, the Perfect Sambuddhas,

“You don’t become a sage by silence,
“You’re not a sage by silence,

while still confused and ignorant.

The astute one holds up the scales,

taking only the best,

and rejecting the bad;

the sage who grieves
the sage should stand in that rejoicing,

One who measures good and bad in the world,

therefore this is called a sage.
is said to be a sage.

Knowing the virtuous and the wicked,
Knowing the teaching of the virtuous,

and (the whole world) with its gods.
inside and outside.

devas and men
which are worthy of gods and humans,

they’re freed from chains.”
they’re sages in passing away.”

There are two kinds of plastering:
there are two kinds of shelter:

Craving, Etc. ...
Craving, and view.

This is the shelter of craving. ...
This is the shell.

This view is the idiot of view.
This is the idea of view.

the sage, after giving up craving for views, and when he has got rid of attachment, he doesn’t cling to it.
The Sage, having given up craving and view, does not tremble at the time, and he does not get rid of it.

They live with a heart free of greed, free of oppressed, free of limits.
They live with a mind free of liberated, liberated, free of oppressed, liberated, detached, my mind free of limits.

We are served by the sages, not their masters.
a sage in regard to possessive things, not the a sage.

and if he is nourished with plasterity,
He’s free of idiot and shameless,

Seven darts

Those who had dissatisfied with lust, clung to, sixteen containers, and darts adornments, and conducive to heaven.
Those full of passion, with dart drawn nearby, and skill in view.

Since they’ve given up dart and they’re called ‘unscillion’. They’re abstaining from fear and dread, and they’ve cut off all clinging to it. They meditate observing rise and fall in bliss, has stilled the dart.
He has abandoned the dart and cutting off all fetters, he has gone beyond the shade of clinging to the abode of fear and dread. He is said to be the interrupting the pile of glowing coals, thege of the round, the dart, the shackle, the vomit of the liver, the arrow, the lump of bliss, the water, the tooth-disciplining.

without flesh,
gourded with the sixteenth.

Living during the day, while staying together, he proceeds while staying there,
while living together, while staying in and wandering in the evening time, while giving her to garments,

He who exercise practicing carefully and not maintaining what is beneficial, not unself in the future. He lives untrained in terms of resistance, not slacking off when it comes to developing skillful qualities.
He is one who acts carefully and carelessly because he does not act with careful attention, unfaithfully transferred to skillful qualities.

“And how can I fulfill the entire spectrum of ethical conduct, or support with wisdom in that place?”
“And how should I fill up the entire spectrum of ethical conduct, or support with wisdom in every situation the ethical conduct I’ve already fulfilled, prevented from desire, neglect, mindfulness, and situational awareness?”

“And however I fulfill the entire spectrum of immersion or wisdom I haven’t yet fulfilled, or support with wisdom in every situation the immersion that I’ve already fulfilled.
“And how should I fulfill the entire spectrum of immersion ...

skillful qualities
when it comes to skillful qualities,

“But how can I fulfill the entire spectrum of wisdom ...
“But how do I haven’t yet filled up the entire spectrum of wisdom?” ...

freedom,
the entire spectrum of freedom ...

When you have fulfilled the entire spectrum of the knowledge and vision of freedom, or in that they’ve already fulfilled, they should apply outstanding enthusiasm, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.
When it is fulfilled, I’ll fulfill the knowledge and vision of freedom.” In this way, they should apply outstanding enthusiasm, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

“And how can I completely understand suffering, its origin, its cessation, and the path?”
“And how should I completely understand suffering as suffering, or inferior or superior?”

and non-human beings, free of enmity and ill will,
being smeared with pestles,

Who does not hope for this world or the next world, and does not approve of this world.
does not hope for this world or the next.

And the glorious world would be like that of the Sakyans, without making such a statement, can’t get formless, and feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
And so the whole world—with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, gods and humans—and she is a suitable for the other, and so forth when it is lost to be without consciousness.

There are six interior sense fields: the six exterior sense fields.
There is a boat on this world, and the six internal sense-spheres. These are the six interior sense fields.

he does not look after this world,
he does not look down on this world,

the world does not experience this world, and if there is no other world,
There is no part of this world, and heading for form, yet the realm of luminous forms.

There is no mind element, no longer manifests in the realm of luminous form.
twenty-three worlds, and physical forms don’t exist in the world.

They prejudiced by rebirth, old age, or death. And they don’t consent to food, whether they’re still not.
Again, when one despises a prejudiced by wind, he does not consent to. He does not consent to any reference to the bowl or robe, nor does he likes.

does not hope for this world or the next.

The Buddha replied,

“One who has understood the perception of giving up,
“Knowing the perception of another,

We are served by the sages, not their masters.
a sage in regard to possessive things, not the a sage.

and non-human beings, free of enmity and ill will,
being smeared with pestles,

does not hope for this world or the next.”

The second chapter on secrets
The second rainy season

