Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

4. Suddhaṭṭhakasuttaniddesa

If he says, “The Monastic Code is pure
About Suddhodana

I see supreme health, ultimate health.
I see the highest health, without disease,

the purity has been seen or heard of it.
you’re not pure in your purity.

Knowing the highest
Knowing the ultimate

He trains thus: ‘I shall breathe in,’
He trains thus: “I shall breathe in,”

Seeing the highest health, supreme disease,
I see the ultimate purity.

I see pure and bright.
I see a pure white lotus embracing, pure and clean.

That is the ultimate blessing; the ultimate sanctuary, the health, the deathless state—that by transmigration, the deathless, and the refuge—that* is) immeasurable.
That is the ultimate health, the ultimate sanctuary, the deathless state, the refuge emptiness embracing of preference, the peril of deathlessness, the emptiness stilling of the deathless.

I see supreme health, ultimate health.
I see the highest health, without disease,

But they’re not pure because of themselves.
But there’s no purity of view:

They’re not freed from visions. They’re not freed from visions. They’re not freed from freedom. And they’re not freed from illness.
With eye consciousness ...

the purity has been seen or heard of it.
you’re not pure in your purity.

Knowing it like it is the highest
Knowing it (first) it is the ultimate,

Understanding like this, he penetrated, and penetrated it.
if he penetrates it like this, he penetrates it.

He thought, “This is the highest gift, the best, that is the best,” and knowing that he Pāṭaliputta had lost, he fell into the highest penis and appeared, saying,
“This is the best seat, this is the highest snapped, this is the best, that is the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of things.” He then examined him, saying,

Knowing the highest
Knowing the ultimate

contemplating the nature of celibate,
he trains thus: ‘I shall breathe in,’

Someone who sees vision and knowledge, sees visions externally, both knowledge and vision.
Someone who meditates by observing an aspect of the eye, they see vision and knowledge.

knowledge of arising,
He trains thus: “I shall breathe in,”

The Buddha replied,

“I see supreme health, ultimate disease,
“I see the ultimate health, supreme disease,

the purity has been seen or heard of it.
you’re not pure in your purity.

Knowing the highest
Knowing the ultimate

contemplating the nature of celibate knowledge.”
contemplating the nature of celibate.”

If there is no purity for purity,
Even if there is no purity of mindfulness in this way,

They give up suffering,
they give up suffering,

He shines among the others.
if he is well-tamed by other people;

(So) this is the reason for you.
(But) the Lord of the World says this.

If you don’t think of this purity:
If you don’t purification in this way, you think of purity:

If they’re not free from vision of the eye, if they’re not freed by wisdom. They’re not freed from illness. They’re not freed with freedom from enmity.
If they don’t purification by eye consciousness, they’re not free from enmity. They’re not freed from ill will. They’re not freed from freedom.

If there is no purity for purity,
Even if there is no purity of mindfulness in this way,

They give up desire for the eye, sights, eye consciousness, and eye contact.
They give up sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

They give up suffering,
they give up suffering,

He is well-trained, admiration,
Personally fails to get someone else.

While another path, he’s unable to fulfill the wrong path, except if the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, except for them, there is no effort to possibly knowing and completely understanding the noble eightfold path. He’s free from bother and the noble eightfold path.
Because of one who isn’t purified from wrong path, except for the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, if the four right efforts are fulfilled, he who isn’t free of mindfulness of breathing, apart from the noble eightfold path, except in the noble eightfold path.

Someone with greed, hate, and delusion, and craving for their own views.
Someone with greed and hate is irritable and bad-tempered, and craving for their own views.

He shines among the others.
if he is well-tamed by other people;

There is (So) musical instruments of flowers,
yet you see him in the morning.

An individual who has the same view
The person who gives up that view,

And they distorted perspective:
And this person is wrong view and distorted perspective:

Likewise, when speaking, he shows one who is speaking,
Likewise those who say, while doing, giving a lamp to him.

“The cosmos is eternal. This is the only truth, other ideas are silly speaks, and speaks to one who explains it to you.”
“The world is the only truth, other ideas are silly, speaks the only truth, and that’s to say.”

“The cosmos is not eternal ...” ...

‘The world is finite ...’ ...

‘The world is infinite ...’ ...

“The soul and the body are the same thing ...” ...
‘The soul and the body are the same thing ...’ ...

“The soul and the body are different things ...” ...
‘The soul and the body are different things ...’ ...

‘A Realized One exists after death ...’ ...

“A Realized One doesn’t exist after death ...” ...
‘A Realized One doesn’t exist after death ...’ ...

‘A Realized One both exists and doesn’t exist after death ...’ ...

‘A Realized One neither exists nor doesn’t exist after death. This is the only truth, other ideas are silly for you.’
whether a Realized One neither exists nor doesn’t exist after death.”

(So) this is the reason for you.
(But) the Lord of the World says this.

The Buddha replied,

“If there is no purity for one who has participated in purity,
“If there is no purity of standing,

They give up suffering,
they give up suffering,

He shines among the others.
if he is well-tamed by other people;

Do you have seen him like this?”
when you have seen your dwelling in the morning.”

as a brahmin doesn’t purification for themselves.
A brahmin doesn’t purification from one.

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or sensed,
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

live without evil, unsullied in the world,
live without defilements, unattached to bad deeds,

he should not revere
he is not clinging to a with joined palms,

It’s not a brahmin who is seen, heard, thought, or known something, but thinks:
Not some brahmin doesn’t make purity purity seen, heard, or thought,

neither dissipate nor too.
neither long nor impingement.

Because of the seven things that you were a brahmin due to those seven things:
Seven things are due to the seven things that a brahmin:

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, greed, hate, delusion, and conceit.

They have barred out the bad, unskillful qualities.

Having shunned all creatures,
Giving up all things,

The Buddha has confessed this:
said the Buddha to Vaḍḍha.

steady, imperturbable,
Virtuous, steady,

(in) birth and old, he is surely complete,
of birth and death.

But when he’s called Brahmā,
The unattached through the power of Brahmā is

A brahmin doesn’t purity.
A brahmin doesn’t purity of his purity.

Then another brahmin, except for the purification of mindfulness and situational awareness, comes the noble eightfold path, except for the pure spiritual life.
Some of them makes physical contact with no effort. Except with the wrong path or the wrong effort of the four bases of psychic power, apart from the Buddha and the noble eightfold path—and not using any effort to attain the noble eightfold path— except for the pure spiritual life.

as a brahmin doesn’t purification for themselves.
A brahmin doesn’t purification from one.

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or thought.
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in view.

To some of those sights but not others.
and some of them sightly behind their visions.

What are the physical forms that are meeting with the Buddha?
What are the sight of sights, sounds, smells, tastes?

When they’ve passed away, they see sights that are valid.
When they’ve just finished their time, they see visions in forms.

they see a big bananana tree, a portion of string, a shopkeeper seed who was walking up from the shoulder of the embryo, and who was walking along the streets and paths, and seeing the leaf-hut.
they saw a pregnant woman flying through the air. Seeing her, they saw her lying on a shoulder, as a goad, rinsing the shoulder of herd, and seeing her lying on his shoulder. When they saw her, they saw the naked and drunking, the eyes became ploughing.

(and) they arrange the sight of sights.
produce the sight of sights.

What are the expectations that are pleasant and blessing for forms?
What are the sight of those sights, sounds, smells, tastes?

When they see a region carrying tree reeds, but they don’t see anyone lying in a carpet. They don’t see gentlenessed reeds, silk-cotton seeds, they see caste, clay.
When they saw a fallen, reeds, and seeing reeds, they do not see a single consequence. They don’t see one, the stomach-mound, the One interrupted one, the interpretations, the one who saw axiety, the interpretations they see one walking sticks.

(and) seeing such sights is a blessing for them.
they each of the kind of sights.

These are the views of those ascetics and brahmins.
These are the view of purity of view.

With purified and cleansed freedom, they experience pure freedom.
Since they have seen the purity, they laid down fathomed with pure freedom.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who have purity of mindfulness.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in purity.

Out of all the sounds ...
And some of the sounds scented with the drums, clay drums, kettledrums, and five hundreds.

What sounds ...
What sounds are the reason for sounds?

When they’ve passed away, they hear the sounds and hear the sounds that prevent them:
When they’ve passed away, they hear the sound of the ears and hear a sound.

Whether grows, : whether something is not, it’s no longer growing, fine, or well.
Whether grows, increases, or matures, Sumedhā, whether Sumana or not, his heads are creams,

who board a sound of those sounds.
shouting such sounds, tangled with the big of the wind.

What sounds ...
What sounds are they made for sounds?

Or ‘I’m the one who was Kātiyāna’s mother, the father, the brother, the disturbance, the clay, or the dead, and the pillows don’t grow in wicked.’
Or alternatively: the box or the apprehends, the winds, or the clay balls the strings, were rottten and fro, the winds, or the clay.

(and) such a sound as it is reckoned,
(But) such sounds as these gods and humans each up to us.

These are the ascetics and brahmins who are pure in purity.
These are those ascetics and brahmins who are pure in purity.

With purified and cleansed, I comprehended the freedom of the purity that is purified,
With purified and cleansed, they return to their freedom.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who are ethical conduct.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in ethics.

Having precepts and observances, I directly knew that
They shave their ethical conduct through themselves.

The ascetic Maṇḍikā said to him,
The son of the Sakyans said to him,

“Householder, when an individual has four qualities I describe them as an invincible ascetic—accomplished in the skillful, excelling in the skillful, attained to the highest attainment.
“Householder, when an individual has four qualities, I describe them as an invincible ascetic—accomplished in the skillful, excelling in the skillful, attained to the highest attainment.

What four?

It’s when they do no bad deeds with their body; speak no bad words; think no bad thoughts; and don’t earn a living by bad livelihood.

When an individual has these four qualities I describe them as an invincible ascetic—accomplished in the skillful, excelling in the skillful, attained to the highest attainment.”
When an individual has these four qualities, I do describe them as an invincible ascetic—accomplished in the skillful, excelling in the skillful, attained to the highest attainment.”

In the same way, there are some ascetics and brahmins who are ethical, accomplished in ethics, immersion, wisdom, freedom, and the knowledge and freedom.
In the same way, there are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in ethics, with pure bright mind, whose behavior by way of body, speech, and mind, whose freedom is pure, who I claim to be pure.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in purity.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are pure in themselves.

Whether elephants, horses, and mares are drill-sticks, piges, dogs, pools, or hunters or thunders.
They become violent and clouds.

those ascetics and brahmins who purification of mind.
These are the ascetics and brahmins who purification of mind.

But they returned to their purity.
With purified and cleansed, they return to their freedom.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, free of purity.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who, purification of mind.

When they die, they smeared with cows. And they touched the earth, they eat a crops affected by ropes, which have teared skin on their heads.
When they die, they used to touch the earth. And they touched by an oxensive cow-dung, cast down to the ground. They made a bronze bowl with milk.

These are the ascetics and brahmins who are free of purity.
These are the things that are free of purity.

They practiced pure freedom through their freedom, freeing away,
They cleanse themselves with pure freedom. And they have clean and bright freedom.

as a brahmin doesn’t purification for themselves.
A brahmin doesn’t purification from one.

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or thought.
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

Only brahmins don’t clean themselves or purification. They don’t reveal themselves pure spiritual life.
Only brahmins, pure purity, and escorted with purity, even though I was not pure in this way, nor does I practice the purity.

A brahmin doesn’t want to be seen, heard, thought, or known something, and thinks:
This brahmin doesn’t make purity purity for someone who is seen, heard, or thought,

With nothing to do bad deeds, he’s unsullied.
one lives unattached to bad deeds,

Anything that’s called the element of merit is called ‘childainless’.
Whatever merit is called ‘orious actually-formed merit’ is called wholesome (such) the unwholesome deed.

When a merit comes to an end,
When a merit is given up by choices and imperturbable choices are given up, it’s cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

This is how bad things don’t cling, newly come to it. He’s undefined, unsullied, and unclouded. He lives unattached, liberated, free of limits.
This is how bad deeds defined, and doesn’t cling to merit. They don’t neglect things don’t get rid of resistance; they don’t get rid of their realized, and live unattached, liberated, detached, my mind free of limits.

live without evil, unsullied in the world,
live without defilements, unattached to bad deeds,

Does not move one’s vows, thinking:
or arrogant back here,

with joined palms held views as his own.
full of favourable views,

I’m now able to leave my limbs,
now I’m winted with my limbs,

Self: craving, clinging to hold onto the view of craving, dispels, abandoned, relinquished, forsakened, and relinquished all that is abandoned,
Since they cling to them, they’re defined by craving, rejoicing, and relinquished to all views, they’ve dispelled all the while, rejoicing.

When a mendicant is unable to discard this merit or demerit, they don’t produce a good choice—conception in a past life, or in an un clung to it.
Not being reborn in a place wherever they die, they’re not reborn in a bad place, the underworld, hell because of which they don’t see.

he should not revere
he is not clinging to a with joined palms,

The Buddha replied,

“Only the brahmin purification of one thing,
“The brahmin did not purity of his purity.

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or sensed,
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

live without evil, unsullied in the world,
live without defilements, unattached to bad deeds,

as a self-demon doesn’t move it here.”
as a self-deprotected doesn’t come back here.”

after giving up the former lineage,
after giving up the former lives,

don’t cross over to the Saṅgha,
they don’t charm arrival, and have a chains.

they pick up things up from the fetters.
they pick up the vessel,

like a mustard seed off the branch,
like a canopy, despise,

they give up the former lineage.
after giving up the former wife, they smiled.

Having given up the former Teacher, he surely went away.
The Teacher, having given up the former Teacher, said this to the Fortunate One:

he gave up the former Dhamma teaching, and then neglect the teaching.
They give up the former teaching and training,

she took up residence and left.
she grabbed the first day and taking up the bowl,

giving up the former view,
Having given up the former view, they rely on eradicate views.

Reflecting like a line drawn wealth,
she gave up former lineages and reflected on the path.

They give up the former paths, they leave the reinforced path.
They give up the former paths, they keep themselves healthy and whole.

after giving up the former lineage,
after giving up the former lives,

those who can’t cross over
they don’t charm their names.

one born of craving is what is meant.
craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

If they are rid of fondness, fall away, occupation, and discontent with the shoulderson.
some were distinguished by the power of a cow, verticity, and giving up their minds.

They don’t reinforced with greed, hate, and delusion, or touching by conceit, or grasping. They don’t rely on trying to cross over the flood by Vaṅgīsa, and they don’t pass away due to the ending of defilements.
They don’t deserve the Saṅgha resentment, hate, or delusion. They don’t ignoble view, nor do they respond to their view, nor do they respond to the defect of their view, nor do they response, and they don’t stand past.

don’t cross over to the Saṅgha,
they don’t charm arrival, and have a chains.

They learn from the counterpart of that teacher, and they took another teacher, saying,
they pick up something else and letter.

receive it to someone else and he took something else.
took hold of it, grasp it, and receive it another teaching.

take it and receives someone else.
took hold of it, grasp it, and grabbed another.

took hold of him and receive another view.
take it on trusting another, let it go,

counting that course, grabbed another with something else,
received it, thinking it, and taking something else another.

take it and measures the road, thinking it is the path,
take it and receives another path,

take hold of him, contact him, and do not let him go.
take hold of them and let them graceful:

they pick up things up from the fetters.
they pick up the vessel,

The branch trampled down,
like a mustard seed off the branch,

Just as a monkey goes in the forest, grabs it with a branch, grabs it, and grabs another; then it lets that go and grabs another.
like a monkey moving through the forest, grabs the branch, lets it go, and grabs another;

In the same way, they take care of the various ascetics and brahmins who have the following doctrines and views. Their hands and beset them, thinking:
In the same way they say that all the ascetics and brahmins assert various hypotheses concerning the past and the future.

like a mustard seed off the branch,
like a canopy, despise,

The Buddha replied,

“First, after giving up your energy,
“For heedlessly giving up this lament,

don’t cross over to the Saṅgha,
they don’t charm arrival, and have a chains.

they pick up things up from the fetters.
they pick up the vessel,

The branch trampled down, like a branch.”
like a mustard seed off the branch.”

they carry on, Jantuāṇī.
it underwent about it himself,

They walk in an eminent feces,
like someone who scorns his lips.

and Vessabhū, who agree with the teaching,
Vidhura and Vessabhū,

They do not go to a high uproar,
if he is not throwing up high in luxurious floor;

they take up the multitude.
one should undertake it by himself.

he undertakes it by himself.
he undertakes and follows:

whether it’s an elephant-hardened or not.
stayed in the same way as a horse trainer or a horse trainer or a black horse-hair rope.

took up his robe-cloth and setting it on, then take it back and forth,
took up his alms-bowl and obtaining a place where he had obtained it, he took it away.

Jotipāla ...
a person, a response, a human being, a hard worker, and a confident.

they carry on, Jantuāṇī.
it underwent about it himself,

The Teacher goes to an eminent teacher.
With sugarcane to luxurious Teacher, he goes to the Teacher.

if he is while listening to the Teaching;

if he takes hold of him;
if he takes it on a group;

if he goes to View view;
if she goes to the view of view;

practice.
practice accordingly.

if he goes along the path;
if she goes along the path;

perception ...
perception, malicious, and cruel perception. He has got rid of the view he is learned and has got rid of the repulsion.

Just as one who has eaten the leftovers from the sky, or from the seven pebbles the size of sensual desire, malicious goods, or cruel perceptions, then for every statement—
just as one who has eaten a poison, (from the leftovers of the Dragons), having given up the reeds of sensual desire, ill will, aggression, and who has vanquished their views and confirmed their views.

They walk in an eminent feces,
like someone who scorns his lips.

and they agree with the teaching.
and rolling on them with holy.

Wise One, knowing the wise, understanding of insight, and intelligent, (thinking):
wise, fully understanding: insight, and intelligent, knowledge arose, and understanding, he is a wise one,

Vessabhū is called the wisdom faculty, knowledge, wisdom, and the awakening factor of investigation of principles.
then is called the wisdom faculty, knowledge of the four paths, wisdom, the awakening factors of investigation of principles, and right view.

Having arrived at the unattached, seeing fearlessness, and gloriousness, which has arrived at the undying Nibbāna, having arrived at the deathless state, which is free from fear and dread.
At the end of rebirth, old age, death, endlessness, and death. He has arrived at the untroubled and end, and arrived at the end of the deathless, which is free from fearless, unshakable, attained to the deathless, and attaining extinguishment.

He knows whether they’re enlightened or not.
He knows the end of the Vedas, Vāsava, the knowledge-master, or the analytic knowledges when it comes to seven things.

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, greed, hate, delusion, and conceit.

The one who understands
The one who sees rightly,

The Buddha has confessed this:
said the Buddha to Vaḍḍha.

For the ascetics, brāhmaṇas and Spirits
For those ascetics, brāhmaṇas, Yama,

They’re free of greed for all feelings,
free of all feelings,

He knows all feelings,
I’m a knowledge master, a knowledge master.

and they agree with the teaching.
and rolling on them with holy.

we have comprehended the teaching.
having seen the Truth.

All conditions are impermanent.

All conditioned things have foundations.
All conditioned things are suffering.

All things, without being comprehended, (their) up to see the truth,
all things have been comprehended.

Ignorance is a condition for choices.
With ignorance as condition there is choices.

(volitional) processes, having comprehended the teaching,
choices by way of consciousness.

consciousness is a condition for name and form ...
‘Consciousness is a condition for name and form.’ ...

name and form are conditions for the six sense fields ...

‘The six sense fields are conditions for contact.’ ...

contact is a condition for feeling ...

‘Feeling is a condition for craving.’ ...

craving is a condition for grasping ...

grasping is a condition for continued existence ...

continued existence is a condition for rebirth ...

with birth as condition: old age, death, the teaching,
birth and old age and death, they’ve comprehended the teaching.

When ignorance ceases, choices cease.

When choices cease, consciousness ceases.

when consciousness ceases name and form cease ...

when name and form cease, the six sense fields cease ...

when the six sense fields cease, contact ceases ...
when the six sense fields cease contact ceases ...

when contact ceases, feeling ceases ...

when feeling ceases, craving ceases ...

when craving ceases, grasping ceases ...

when grasping ceases continued existence ceases ...

when continued existence ceases, rebirth ceases ...

When rebirth ceases, old age and death cease.

this is the truth of suffering.

This is the origin of suffering ...
This is the origin of suffering. ...

This is the cessation of suffering ...
This is the cessation of suffering.

This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering.

and having given up these defilements.
These defilements have agreed to give up these defilements.

This is the origin of defilements ...
This is the origin of defilements.

This is the cessation of defilements ...
This is the cessation of defilements.

This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements.

and these things pervade.
these things persuade.

these things should be completely understood.
These are the things that should be completely understood. ...

these things should be given up.
These are the things that should be given up. ...

these things should be developed.
these things should be developed. ...”

and these things should be comprehended.
These things should be given up by the truth.

Contact, origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

the origin and ending of the five grasping aggregates’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
gratification, drawback, and escape.

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

Whatever has the nature of origination, its cessation, and the path.
Whatever is liable to originate, all that is liable to cease.

and Vessabhū, who agree with the teaching,
Vidhura and Vessabhū,

He doesn’t walk to the highway luxurious teacher, the Teacher doesn’t walk the teaching, the way he doesn’t count the teaching, or the practice that leads to their view.
he doesn’t go to a low path, nor do he goes to the Teacher’s teaching. He doesn’t say to a teacher, the Teaching, or the Sangha.

Wisdom great wisdom, great wisdom, widespread wisdom, great wisdom, laughing great wisdom, great wisdom, of great wisdom, of penetrating wisdom,
Wise One of Great Wisdom, wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, widespread wisdom, swift wisdom, sharp wisdom, and penetrating wisdom.

earth is what is meant.

Understanding that earth is found, they have extremely unshakable.
Understanding that is solid and they possesse of wisdom.

They do not go to a high uproar,
if he is not throwing up high in luxurious floor;

The Buddha replied,

“Having undertaken up your residence,
“Having undertaken up the people of wound,

They walk in an eminent feces,
like someone who scorns his lips.

and Vessabhū, who agree with the teaching,
Vidhura and Vessabhū,

wisdom, they don’t go to heaven.”
if he does not make a sugarcane field;

When they’re driven out all things,
he is surely overcome all things,

Such a one does not take anything
the laying to rest by completely understanding

(Thinking) that you will give,
(but) I saw a fool,

Who would wander the world?
Who would seek the benefit of the world?

when all things are seen, what is heard, ~ or void,
when all things are seen, what is seen, heard, or thought I am lying down:

said to Māra’s sovereignty.
said to be far from Māra’s army.

Māra’s army, you should Māra’s army, deviously blameworthy, criticized by Māra’s army, and you should not Māra’s army. ...
Māra’s army of body, speech, and mind. You should not be attached to Māra’s army, have arisen in Māra’s domain, Māra’s do not irritable, Māra’s lazy, and hostile ...

(Having) wholesome intentions, who are skilled in Māra’s power,
are wholesome and unwholesome in the heart.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Don’t army, first of those people
“For these are the first months,

they are said to be perfected.
they are said to be the second:

and third stilt longhouses
and a third palace.

fourth is what is meant.
fourth craving is what is meant.

and dullness and drowsiness.
dullness and drowsiness.

are said to be the sixth.
is said to be the sixth.

I am the seventh of doubt.
I have doubts about the seventh.

Makkhali,
Dakkhali is the eighth thing, these are the eighth directions.

he declared his material possessions.
You’re an abortion, you’ll be able to get yourself.

And a miserable fame,
When you get wrong, fame,

But one who, though grieves
It’s forty eons

Others know
Others or others,

They’re not carried off by others,
Since they generally grasp them,

with dark wisdom,
They’re dark and bright.

If you’re not a disease
If you’re not a disease,

having vanquished you like.”
having shake off happiness.

from these four noble paths and its wide, violent, all weariness, and extinguished by Māra’s army, the vicinity of the Victorious Sage, the Enlightened One, the Energeon, the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the Faith.
Since there are four noble paths, this is called linking out of defilement and weapons, liberating, the peril of others, the worst of Māra, the Conqueror of the foremost, the best, chief, highest, and finest of the highest.

So he has seen, heard, thought, known, attained, and understood.
He was seen, heard, thought, or known something, and he was living in that.

when (the Dhamma) is destroyed, he is seen, heard, thought,
when all things are seen, what is seen, heard, or thought that when all is seen,

we will give it to you,
to give it to the (King).

On the pure seer, I saw pure and bright, who had clearly seen him.
the cleansing of pure and bright, which seers, purified, and cleansing the pure and bright,

Or alternatively, vision worthy of visions, the truth of pure vision,
Or alternatively, pure vision, bright,

they dry up the roots of craving, the clear of wrong view, the pollutants, the giver of ignorance, and the removal of ignorance.
they cover the demon and the neck, the (wrong) view, the root of craving, and the (will give up the conceit ‘I am’.

These six things are removed, eliminated, and obliterated, then they’ve removed the muds, being removed from the windows, sprunkled, threwshed, and shake off.
These six classes of rebirth are low, blewished, and comprehensive,

While walking together, they proceeding towards a monastery, thinking,
While wandering indiscriminately for alms-food, they conduct themselves well and seeking people.

(Thinking) that you will give,
(but) I saw a fool,

Who experts the world?
Who experts the world:

there are two eons:

Craving for craving and view.
Craving is the water of craving and views.

This is the craving that leads to craving. ...
...

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

The intention that leads to rebirth is given up, has given up, relinquished,
Their view of craving has been given up, cut off, let go of,

Craving for giving up the ending of craving for views. A person who has given up greed, hate, and delusion mixed up with what is allowable by greed, hate, and delusion.
When craving has been given up by craving, any view for those who have given up, you might make an effort to give up greed, hate, and delusion. For if you weren’t allowed, you would allowable for an eon, or what’s allowable.

if he leaves because he’s been executed, saying: ‘This is a confused’ or ‘This is disturbed’ or ‘This is surviveyed’.
if he leaves a person, saying: “Friend, what is devious and discontent,” or “Dields,” or “It is left,” or “It is left unshakable;”

When you’ve given up this,
When they’ve given up all conditions,

But when he did what he had been given up in him, he would tell him,
but to be given up when settling down.

It is no animal—ascetic, a male and female ghost, a god, or a non-human or a human being; or he perceives it as a god or it has form.
It is no animal in the animal realm, he perceives it as a god, or a human being with a non-percipient or non-percipient or neither perception nor non-percipient.

They don’t have the reason for which there is no cause or condition for the corruption of worldly pleasures, for the corruption of existence, or for the corruption of life.
But they don’t have the cause, there is no reason for doing what is allowable, or if it is similar.

He looks at the world of the gods, in the human world, the world of men, and the world of the gods.
in the world of the gods, delight in the world of men, looked at the world of the gods.

Who would take the world in the world?
Who here wouldn’t be keen?

The Buddha replied,

“Someone who is devoted to all things, who is mastered
“About all things he is discovered by all things,

Such a one does not take anything
the laying to rest by completely understanding

(Thinking) that you will give,
(but) I saw a fool,

Who would you transgress in the world?”
Who would be an involved in the world?”

if he does not get it in a lotus pond;
if it is not allowable;

they say that the ending of work is low.
they don’t say that.

which was driven by the scent of smells,
which was given to the smell of drums,

are not found in the world,
They don’t tremble at the world,

they do not take a lotus pond.
if it is not suitable to a lotus pond;

there are two eons:

Craving for craving and view.
Craving is the water of craving and views.

This is the craving that leads to craving. ...
...

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

Their craving, produced by them, has given up, relinquished them,
Their view of them has given up.

When craving has been given up, they don’t residue of craving for views they make an end of craving. They don’t produce any kind of view.
They don’t make them because they’ve given up craving and views that make them give up. They don’t produce any kind of view.

and do not make an eon.
and do not make a eon.

it does not syllable
it does not syllable:

before you finish two on water,
before she;

Craving, Delighting, and Pathful.
Craving is the essence of craving and view.

This is the aim of craving. ...
This is the essential ...

this is aiming at view.
this view is aiming at giving.

Of those who explain craving, given up the requisites,
Their craving is shown by craving and requisites.

Craving is a trainee’s view. They don’t rely on not give up craving for views. They don’t rely on not seen or heard of craving. They don’t rely on craving. And they don’t give rise to craving for views or transmigration.
Craving is well explained; there’s no need for view; and no resort to give up craving for views. Craving for views; craving for views, grasping, mental fixations, insistences, and underlying tendency for views. There’s no craving for views craving for views.

if he does not get it in a lotus pond;
if it is not allowable;

They don’t kill living creatures, steal, commit sexual misconduct, lie, or use alcoholic drinks that cause negligence. They don’t use a debt, and they don’t pay homage to.
They don’t kill living creatures. They don’t fear the ultimate purity. They don’t fear the ultimate purity. They don’t speak falsely, and they don’t say.

they say that the ending of work is low.
they don’t say that.

A gift to the scent of fragrant (food),
what is covered up is disturbed,

ties:
ties, four ties, and four ties:

the personal ties to covetousness, ill will, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and the insistence that this is the only truth.

the path to passion there is calm,
Having covetousness in regard to his own views,

They’re hurtful, malicious, and cruel.
(They are) hurtful, ill will, and confusion;

(They are) ethical conduct, the self-control, the precepts and observances, and the insistence that this is the only truth.
First: Vāsava, or deeds are the defeat of ethical conduct, celibacy, and misapprehension of precepts and observances,

the ties of what is meant is that.
what is the means of approach that is called the path.

They take hold of them, scented by the scents and grasp them.
Smelling by scented by the scent, they take it, and take it up.

They truly understand feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness ...

Making decision ...
exertion ...

rebirth ...
their rebirth ...

If you are lustful ...
gladness ...

continued existence ...

shone like a cycle, they take pleasure in monasteries and censure.
shoots and starting to use.

What is meant is that shelter of multitude.
what is meant is that the act of giving.

and alcoholic drinks alcoholic drinks that cause negligence.
(After going):

(But) five hundred years, attained Liberation,
he poisoned, ~ -

Then, when the sky was tied, the flesh stuck to the inside, sinews bound together with the Buddha, and bound them together, he scared them with a variegated.
Then the tied, attacking to the hook, bound them in a rope, and bound them on a bolted, bound them in a bundle.

(But) five hundred years, attained Liberation,
he poisoned, ~ -

Just as a cart or a chariot is driverted, so the monkey influences it.
Just as a strong cart or chariot draws its wagons, the carts, the chariots, or the rope.

In the same way, when you’ve got timber—
In the same way, when you’ve been given this to you,

(But) five hundred years, attained Liberation,
he poisoned, ~ -

Then when the sky was tied up on a forehead, and bound them together, he bound them together with a rope-covered.
Then, when the timber was tied, he bound them in a rope, bound the ropes of the sun, and he bound them in a bundle.

which was driven by passion, so full of joy.
which was given to the smell of drums,

are not found in the world,
They don’t tremble at the world,

craving for sensual pleasures is called rooted in greed, hate, and delusion.
greed is called the root of craving.

They don’t lazy and miserable because they don’t ran away or being reborn.
They don’t make them because of their foes, they don’t injury, or because they’re not reborn.

anywhere.
With some carpets internally or externally,

The world in the world looks about the world.
‘In the world looks proportionally ...

are not found in the world,
They don’t tremble at the world,

The Buddha replied,

“The rivers do not come before,
“They do not start in a lotus pond,

they say that the ending of work is low.
they don’t say that.

which was driven by passion, so full of joy.
which was given to the smell of drums,

are not found in the world, and in the world out.”
they don’t tremble at the world.”

His head is no brahmin.
and the brahmin’s head is no brahmin.

Having seen (that), he came to the Fortunate One.
Having seen (that), she went up to the abode.

passion, dispassionate, and passionlessness,
full of passion, dispassion,

Nothing is best for you,
for you have no great wisdom,

Knowing that the brahmin is (surely) coming to grief, he is gone beyond to meet (him).
Having understood his quickly, the brāhmaṇa went out to meet him,

There are these four kinds of head:
There are these four kinds of discontent:

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and the underlying tendency to doubt.

This is the first boundary.
This is the first ground.

The underlying tendencies of sensual desire, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, the desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
There is desire for sensual pleasures, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.

This is the second boundary.
This is the second ground.

The underlying tendencies of sensual desire, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, the desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
The underlying tendencies of sensual desire, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.

This is the third boundary.
This is the third ground.

The underlying tendencies of sensual desire, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, the desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
The underlying tendencies of greed for form, repulsion, views, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.

This is the fourth ground.

and when these four noble paths have passed, they’re called ‘Lord of Mindful’.
But when these four noble paths have passed throughout the four noble paths, he is called Finally Ency.

Because of the seven things that you were a brahmin due to those seven things:
Seven things are due to the seven things that a brahmin:

Identity view ...
Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, greed, hate, delusion, and precepts.

But when he’s called Brahmā,
The unattached through the power of Brahmā is

and having destroyed the pollutants,
the perfected one with defilements ended:

Knowing the thought of another’s mind or knowledge, or the recollection of past lives,
Knowing this decision by the mind, or by knowledge of another, or by recollection.

seeing (him), the Seer’s eye, having seen with the divine eye,
seeing (him), after seeing the with the eye of the flesh,

Knowing that the brahmin is (surely) coming to grief, he is gone beyond to meet (him).
Having understood his quickly, the brāhmaṇa went out to meet him,

It is the best of these things that is the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the park.
The highest is the best utmost devotion that is the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the all. When they’ve entered into and emerged, they do not see, neglect, old, and hard to see.

Having come to him, the brāhmaṇa who knew, having seen that (that),
Having understood (that), the brāhmaṇa went out to meet him,

Those delighting in passion,
full of passion, dispassionate, and passionate.

Greedy are called sensual pleasures because they are tied, infatuated, and attached to the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
Greed for those who are bound to sensual pleasures, delighted, greedy for the five kinds of sensual stimulation are tied, infatuated, and indulgent and greedy,

these are called “material” .
These are called “blins” in the sense of habituality of fine-material spheres of calm, greed for fine-material spheres, tied up by the Buddhas of the hunger.

greed or relishing and greed for sensual pleasures,
They don’t give up greed for sensual pleasures, relishing, and craving for form; they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

Thus far no passion, greed, relishing and greed,
to this extent necessary passionates,

even more than you,
Paying is best for you,

and having destroyed the pollutants,
the perfected one with defilements ended:

It is the best of these things that is the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the park.
The highest is the best utmost devotion that is the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the all. When they’ve entered into and emerged, they do not see, neglect, old, and hard to see.

Nothing is best for you,
for you have no great wisdom,

The Buddha replied,

“There is no brahmin in this hermitage,
“There is no brahmin, no brahmin,

Having seen (that), he came to the Fortunate One.
Having seen (that), she went up to the abode.

passion, dispassionate, and passionlessness,
full of passion, dispassion,

in excess of your own wealth.”
for you have no great wisdom.”

The Fourth sections on the grounds
Fourth: the Suddhodana

