Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

5. Paramaṭṭhakasuttaniddesa

If you say that
The Explanation of Nothingness Mine

having seen that in the next life,
having seen that wisdom in this life,

Usurpassable happiness in the world,
When people in the world are driversing,

Next to all other sides:
all of them named “blessed”.

So it is of fostering and component.
Therefore he is quarrelsome and frightening,

having seen that rewards in the next life,
having seen that they attain ultimate state.

There are some ascetics and brāhmaṇas who are of the views.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are of this view:

They clever were the best of these sixty-two misconceptions. They accepted the best convictions, which washed in the most excellent view, and they accepted the invitation to reside on it. They returned to their own view, compete on their own view, and make it resist.
When their view is more than one of the sixty-two misconception, they invited the highest view, dispelling the most excellent view, and doing the invitation procedure having in the morning, they return to their own views and fall.

Just as a household or a house in such-and-such a house, so corruption, living in reciting, and defilement.
Just as when a housewife falls down in the houses rainy-season residence, (their) defilements and their defilements are tired,

In the same way, there are some ascetics and brahmins who are attached to views.
In the same way, there are some ascetics and brahmins who are of this argument, this view:

They cling to the best of these sixty-two misconceptions, while they invite correction, discributed the highest goal, and don’t make the highest view, and they return to their own view.
They did the invitation procedure with one of those two views. They then invited the highest goal and dispensation. They returned to the highest monastery, saying, “I attained the highest view,” and they invited them to accept their own view, and they return.

having seen that in the next life,
having seen that wisdom in this life,

When the person is upright in the world,
When a person in the world beyond,

Whatever his (permission) with:
Whatever is felt,

They make further effort further: the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of all beings.
if he makes any further effort and urgency, the best is the best, chief, that is the foremost, best,

The teacher makes any further effort, the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the highest.
“This teacher gives more all these things,” and he makes the highest offering, (thinking):

‘This is the teaching is well explained.’ ...
‘This is the teaching well explained.’ ...

This is the one practicing well ...
This community is the way to win in a good way ...

This is a fine view ...

This is the ways of practice.
This is the practice which is well laid down ...

This is the path, this is the first kind of person.” They make themselves happy and pleased, the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the highest.
This is the path, this is the best thing.” ...

Jotipāla ...
a person’s delights nobode.

The world in the world looks forwards,
‘In the world looks proportionally ...

Usurpassable happiness in the world,
When people in the world are driversing,

All others, the teacher, having a requisite, tells the Teacher, the teaching, the Dhamma, requisites, and thes of others as his own views.
By means of lowing up to the Teacher, the teacher tells them his own view, the origin of the world, the practice that leads to the austerities, and all the others.

“The Teacher is not know,
“The Teacher is not all,

The Dhamma is not well-proclaimed,
The Dhamma hasn’t been well-proclaimed,

the group that’s not good-looking.
doesn’t practicing well,

not for someone who does.
not for views are indeed.

not well laid down by the seats.
Not by practice,

the path does not lead out,
it does not lead off the path

But it’s not freed through purity or freedom.
And here there is no purity or deliverance of purity for purity.

they’re not freed from these things.
they’re not freed from heresy, or attempt, they’re freed,

inferior people with much want to high—whether senior, middle, or junior—think that is high.”
inferiority and superior, near or farmer, and on the ground of names, “You say this, ‘We’re a limited sense of urgency,” and they say,

Next to all other sides:
all of them named “blessed”.

So it is “without argument”.
That’s why argues with disputes.

Therefore it is because of that reason, the source of that cause.
Therefore because of that reason, the source of that condition.

Arguments, quarrels, and disputes regarding views, and attachments.
Arguments, quarrels, and disputes in views, and views, and ignorance.

Without making amends for an offense:
Without first being announced:

So it is of fostering and component.
Therefore he is quarrelsome and frightening,

The Buddha replied,

“There are some who have seen in attachments,
“There are some higher fetters in this life,

Usurpassable happiness in the world,
When people in the world are driversing,

Next to all other sides:
all of them named “blessed”.

That’s why they’re arguing.”
That’s why argues with quarrels.”

when one sees a charnel ground
when a person sees a benefit

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or sensed,
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

there we’ll get up to heaven.
and with that agitated corpse is up to heaven.

who sees all kinds of hidden witness,
One sees all that is lowly,

When a led on a bowl of virtue they see what is seen, heard, thought, and known:
When a educated person sees a variety of ethics, thinking,

Whatever self arises in oneself,
Whatever one’s own self,

(They are) called “wrong view”.
The view of self is said to be self.

One sees two kinds of view:
he sees two kinds of view:

The benefits of the present life and lives to come.
The advantages in this life and the next.

What is the benefit in the present life?
What is the benefit of view that is the present life?

The teacher has the view that they have.
The disciples have the view that they are.

It is because of their disciples that they honor, respect, esteem, and venerate them. And they receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
The disciples honor, respect, esteem, and venerate their disciples. And they receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

This is the benefit in the present life.
This is the benefit of view that is effective.

What is the benefit to view that leads to future lives?
What is the benefit of views that come to be?

This fair name or clan. Dragons it by day or by night, wedding and by night.
This fair of views is long enough for you to establish a firm, stray, or a consecrating.

This is pure, bright, pure, free of freedom.
This is enough for you to purification through knowledge and freedom.

they’re freed from this view, they’re freed, and they’re freed.
they’re freed from this view, and they’re freed from.

I’ll block the view that is well purified, I’ll free, transfer it, and freed in the future.
I’ll be freed from this view,” “I’ll be freed from the confused about in the future.

This is the benefit to lives to come.
This is the benefit of view that is to be reborn in hell.

One sees these two purifications of view, and two kinds of purity.
Having seen these two views, they see visions that are pure and bright, and they see both themselves and others.

The benefits of the present life and lives to come.
The advantages in this life and the next.

What is purity of mindfulness?
What is purity of mindfulness in the present life?

The teacher has the view that their teacher has wrong view. ...
but the teacher has the view that their teacher has wrong view. ...

This is the benefit of purity.
This is the benefit of purity that comes from the present life.

What is the benefit of purity?
What is the benefit of purity that is purified?

This view is worth a sixteenth part of a self.
This is enough for a self-mortification.

This is the benefit of purity.

They see these two kinds of purity:
and he sees these two kinds of purity by means of overcoming against him.

When a led on a pleasant couch they see what is seen, what is heard, and thought:
When a person sees a low base, they’ve seen what they have, heard, and thought:

With that’s where they go.
and with that’s where they go.

Endowed of that view:
Yet he does have the view:

(Only): “Remotionality, what is called once what is given in the Sakyans
Their view of your own view, turning back and combination, went away.

Another is the highest phrase. This is the best seat, put out, grabs, take hold of the highest self, and take it on to the monastery.
Endowed to this is the best rain, this is the highest among men. Taking the absence often, he picked up his former line and puts it on, saying,

there we’ll get up to heaven.
and with that agitated corpse is up to heaven.

they see everything,
One sees clearly,

A teacher replies on another path, thinking: ‘We will see another path who is training in the lowestate, the courtesan, and the shook of the Teaching as a contemplation.’
You’ll see another teacher.

who sees all kinds of hidden witness,
One sees all that is lowly,

The Buddha replied,

“When a person sees seven years,
“When a person sees seventy-two things,

He dwells in what is seen, heard, or sensed,
in what is seen, heard, or thought.

there we’ll get up to heaven.
and with that agitated corpse is up to heaven.

who sees all things.”
One who sees all things.”

and so are those who say that by sensible people.
the skillful makes you a good,

One who sees that is inferior,
For one who sees that is lowly depressed,

Therefore, when it is seen or heard
Therefore, when you’ve seen the heard

Don’t neglect the virtuous,
Don’t neglect a mendicant.

they say that you are skilled in your limbs.
that you call you say ‘I am’,

Those who are skilled in the elements of the sense fields, in the sense fields, in dependent origination, and the basis of psychic power, skilled in the sense fields, and skilled in mindfulness.
For those who are skilled in the elements, skilled in the sense fields, and skilled in embracing the skillful, exertioned from the unskillful, and skilled in the skillful, exertioned in the unskillful, and skilled in the mindfulness meditation subjects. They say, ‘Skilled in the skillful, skilled in the sense faculties, and skilled in the embracing spiritual power.’

“This is the tie of the bandit, the jackal’s shackle.”
“This is the tip of the banner, a breaking up of the jail, and this is the wrong way.”

They say, ‘There are some who say this.’
They say, ‘There’s no need,’ and they reply.

and so are those who say that by sensible people.
the skillful makes you a good,

For the one who sees who is inferior,
Whatever one sees that one is inferior,

The Teacher has escaped from the teachings, the one who refuses to rough the Dhamma, refusing to rootto the view of self, is dedicated to self.
When the Teacher has sat on the path to keep company with the Teacher, he is detached from the teacher.

They see another teacher who is inferior, compared to the view that is low, crude, ordinary, ignoble, and pointless. They see how to repay them:
They see a Teacher, whose view is inferior. They see another teacher, whose view is responds a practice of the path, because of what is inferior and what is superior, but who sees this truth and the practice of the inferior. They’ll realize the limit of their own view.

One who sees that is inferior,
For one who sees that is lowly depressed,

That’s why he does not lie down, thinking:
That’s why a mendicant who is seen, heard, thought, or known:

That’s why it’s not appropriate for you to take part in which you’ve seen, heard, or thought, or known that purity. That is why you wouldn’t thought,
That’s why you have seen that reason why you haven’t seen, heard, thought, or known something, and you have lost your purity.

Therefore, they shouldn’t give up (it) lazy and virtuous,
That’s why a mendicant who is seen, heard, thought, or known:

The Buddha replied,

“They say that ‘the skillful’,
“They say that you are skilled in a clean cloth

One who sees that is inferior,
For one who sees that is lowly depressed,

Therefore, when it is seen or heard
Therefore, when you’ve seen the heard

wouldn’t neglect a mendicant of virtue?”
no precepts for censure conduct.”

they wouldn’t be allowable for an eon in the world.
also wouldn’t be allowed in the world.

knowledge and conduct,
either with precepts or observances,

like a hunter in the wind.
like a peak in the wind:

it seems I think that you don’t think about.
it seems to me that you’re poisoned.

Is not allowed in the world or what is unworthy for an eon?’
Is it not allowable for them to live in the world within them?’

Eight attainments with universal knowledge, either with wrong view or wrong knowledge or wrong conduct. Nor do they rely on obstinately stick to injured by misconception or by wrong view.
eight attainments of vision or knowledge. They wouldn’t be fundamentals of wrong view, knowledge, or wrong conduct.

He looks at the world in this way: ‘The world is expert in the dimension of infinite space.’
The world looks on at the world: it leads to the highest goal.

Not doing (wrong) view in the world, or moral knowledge and conduct,
(But) no view in the world would be nice for one or other of virtue.

Satisfies oneself:
Self gracefully:

I’m like one who is capable of profession.” Or he does not conflict with another solely or female generous behaves like a golden statue, or anyone else.
That’s why I’m not born in myself, I don’t praise anyone of them, nor do I realization, or specific condition, pliable, workable, or radiants.

like a hunter in the wind.
like a peak in the wind:

it seems I think that you’re talking about.’
it seems to me like a dream or poison.

‘I’m worse’, or ‘I am’, or ‘I am one of my birth’, or ‘one who has no grounds for criticism’.
‘I’m worse’, or ‘I’m one of those who were born in oneself or another’s site.

‘I’m better than myself’, or ‘I’m going to be better’, or ‘No problem,’ or ‘You have a site’.
‘I’m better than myself’, or ‘I’m equal to birth or death’, or ‘I am one of another’.

it seems I think that you don’t think about.
it seems to me that you’re poisoned.

The Buddha replied,

“While they’re not allowed in the world,
“Suppose there was no one in the world.

knowledge and conduct,
either with precepts or observances,

like a hunter in the wind.
like a peak in the wind:

Do you think he’s not poison or drift?”
Do you think he’s dispelled?”

(They are) favourable to pass,
(They are) not attached to it,

They do not take part in knowledge.
They create knowledge but not undergoing suffering.

They’re like a hair-tip with an arrow.
They’re like a monkey in the heart.

have no views that last a view.
there is no wrong view for you.

(They are) not attached to.
(They are) not attached to it,

giving up, they give up their own view.
having given up what belongs to self, one who has given up others.

Having given up desire for giving up
having given up (all) desires,

Giving up craving, they give up craving, dispel craving for views, holding them tight, and realization. They too, having given up the lower fetters, they will give up the stream, and not swallow them away.
Then they give up that view, cling, hold, and obliterated by craving. They’ve given up the lower fetters, they’ve given up. Neither, they make an end of suffering.

Having given up conceit,

Not grasping, they don’t grasp, thinking:
Not grasping, they don’t grasp at the four kinds of grasping.

(They are) favourable to pass,
(They are) not attached to it,

Even when they create knowledge, make no effort, meditation in these five ways.
But they don’t create knowledge because of one’s knowledge, they don’t make a living creature knowledge of the five grasping aggregates, or they don’t in them.

They do not take part in knowledge.
They create knowledge but not undergoing suffering.

As with the different kinds of foulness they go to heaven, like two kinds of foulness. Those who are attached to fear, terrified, and cowardice, etc., do not follow along with their example and renunciates. And they do not decisions come to decisions prejudiced by various different views.
They do not favoritism with greed, hate, and delusion. As they are attached to their own views, holding them tight, and resentment, or views of their own views. They do not go towards all kinds of fondness. As they do not decision, amongst those who come and go with their example. They don’t proceed when it comes tohooded by the attitude of these two ends.

They’re like a hair-tip with an arrow.
They’re like a monkey in the heart.

(This) is not mine, and has nothing thought,
they don’t regarding views,

And while those sixty-two misconceptions have been given up, cut off, and engaged in making pours of the offerings.
But when he has given up these sixty-two grounds, he comprehends the opposite sex, which were spent in a mortal and unwilled.

There’s no wrong view. Nor reopens it.
There’s no wrong view for you,

have no views that last a view.
there is no wrong view for you.

The Buddha replied,

(They give up) favourable to pass,
“Having given up an enemy,

They do not take part in knowledge.
They create knowledge but not undergoing suffering.

They’re like a hair-tip with an arrow.
They’re like a monkey in the heart.

no-one would grieve.”
they have no views for what?”

For him there is no desire to fame,
For whom there is no desire for fame,

continuity or here,
to prosperity or loss.

Mother or father,
He has no home in his home,

to hear Dhamma.
striving for teachings,

They’re winned by fear, transmigration, or any perfected one who has ended the defilements.
They don’t be reborn here whoever has ended the defilements, for a perfected one, or a fully awakened Buddha.

Contact, one end. The origin of contact is the second end.
Stamped with contact, one ends. The origin of the second,

One past, future, and present.
The other was like the past, future, and present,

pleasant feeling, unpleasant feeling, and second end.

The other was named “Sāriputta”, and with the second end.
The second (good) is one end.

The six interior sense fields are only one sense fields. The six exterior sense fields are the second end.
The six interior sense fields are one, and the six exterior sense fields is the second base.

identity, the origin of identity, and the second end.
identity, the origin of identity, and the second is the second end.

you’re said to be a trapper,
you’re said to be traders in craving.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

will be reborn in a future life; there is no more future lives.
will be reborn in the realm of existence; that is, there are no more future lives.

Here his own state of existence:
Here a clansman beings,

who does so follow others.
and life of others.

Here: (There is) a pillar, a pin consciousness,
* Here the wisdom there is from the Sakyan clan, who has the perception of consciousness,

(There is) a formless feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness,
and was reborn amongst gods and humans (only).

Here: the six internal sense spheres,
Here: the six interior sense fields

there are six external sense spheres:
Rāhula from the six exterior sense fields.

Here: a human being,
Here: the world of men,

The world of the gods, Rāhu,
they enjoy the world of the gods.

Here the elements of sense desire:

Rāhula, the formless realm, and the formless realm.

Here the elements of the sensual realm,

Rāhu, lord of the earth element,
Rāhula, you’re doing so,

They’re famous and avarice regarding crumbling in this world or the next.
They don’t exist here or hereafter.

But both of these two states of existence do not exist here, there is no craving for existence.
For both of these two ends, the concepts of continued existence and the desire to be reborn, the worm does not help them out.

They’re famous and avarice here, there is no low or crushing here and there.
They don’t exist here or hereafter.

dwelling places have no supplies for him.
there are no homes for him.

Two houses:

Craving is a person’s view,
Craving is the home of craving and view. ...

This is the home of craving. ...

This is the home of view.
This is the one’s view.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

Those who have no a home in order to approach and recall, there are no places. There are no knowledge to be abandoned, cut off, destroyed, and contemplations.
There are no homes that are. There are no matters for them, there are no places for them to be given up. When they’ve gone beyond the limits and eliminates, they get rid of the opposite sex.

Mother or father,
He has no home in his home,

To strive:
is constantly recollecting principles,

Probation for those misconceptions
When there is a misconception, the sixty-two misconceptions

And after making an appropriate occasion:, instead of having deposed and becoming arranged, inquire into his lap, and invited him to denigree, he fixed them,
Having constantly requested: “He is permanent, everlasting, fickle, and inquire about, he deprived things.”

When the receiver of the manage he holds the recipient, the recipient of the Thirty-Three, the receiver of the getting stressed on the ground, and the recipients have been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, or to be disposed.
When the receivers are low, he takes the recipient, the receiver of the alms-food, the housewife, the receiver, the recipient, the recipient, and the oppression—that’s doubt, the repulsion, the truth, the oppressed, the independent, the thought, “This is nothing wrong with knowledge, and it is not cleared about the wrong practice.”

to hear Dhamma.
striving for teachings,

The Buddha replied,

“He who does not abandon (another) fear,
“He who has no desire for anyone, there is no danger,

continuity or here,
to prosperity or loss.

Mother or father,
He has no home in his home,

would constantly be permanent?”
Is constantly go forth?”

here, having seen what is seen, heard, or sensed,

and perception was likewise,
and perception and non-perception.

which is the view of the brahmins, etc.
that view is the defeat of views,

Who would take the world in the world?
Who here wouldn’t be keen?

grain, veinssel, and very based on what is seen or heard, there is no perception.
He’s seen, heard, thought, or known: he does not exist in the seen,

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

Those perceptions of impermanence in this way are seen or heard of purification. They’ve seen, heard, thought, or known something, and they have no learning. But they’re not dispersal.
Their perceptions in their purity do not apply themselves to purity or view. Though they think there are in learning and entering in and emerge from the empty dwellings. Their perceptions of the variety of perceptions, their thought, “Such is empty, and the perception are stilled. Their perception is clear, and they are infatuated, and they are not disposed. Theired, contemplated and disposed. Theiring about the teachings do not exists, and changeable.

grain, veinssel, and very based on what is seen, there is no sign.
He’s seen, there is no such thing as empty, and so on.

that view, brahmin, and so on.
the brahmin, attacking that view,

Because of the seven things that you were a brahmin due to those seven things:
Seven things are due to the seven things that a brahmin:

identity view ...

But when he’s called Brahmā,
The unattached through the power of Brahmā is

that view, brahmin, and so on.
the brahmin, attacking that view,

So that view doesn’t guarantee him to the household life, saying:
So that view would not be attached to their own views, while they don’t indeed.

which is the view of the brahmins, etc.
that view is the defeat of views,

Who here specifically prohibited:
Who is expanded in the world:

there are two eons:

Craving for craving and view.
Craving is the water of craving and views.

This is the craving that leads to craving. ...
...

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

The intention that craving is given up, has been given up, eliminated, and obliterated.
Their view of craving has been given up, cut off, let go of,

Craving for giving up the ending of craving. A person who has given up greed, hate, and delusion for life. may be allowed by misconceptions, by greed, hate, and delusion, or by what is allowable.
When craving has been given up by craving, any view for those who have given up, you might make an effort to give up greed, hate, and delusion. For if you weren’t allowed, you would allowable for an eon, or what’s allowable.

if he leaves because he’s been executed, saying: ‘This is a confused about,’ or ‘This is called a misfortune’ or ‘teady’ or ‘unction’.
if he leaves a person, saying: “Friend, what is devious and discontent,” or “Dields,” or “It is left,” or “It is left unshakable;”

When you’ve given up this,
When they’ve given up all conditions,

But because of the impediments he did:
but to have been given up in the process of going—

It is no animal—ascetic, a male and female ghost, a god, or a non-human or a human being; or he perceives it as a god or he has formless, or he perceives that it is not.
It is no animal in the animal realm, he perceives it as a god, or a human form with a non-percipient or non-percipient or neither perception nor non-percipient.

They don’t have the reason for which there is no cause or condition for the corruption of worldly pleasures, for the corruption of existence, or for the corruption of life.
But they don’t have the cause, there is no reason for doing what is allowable, or if it is similar.

He looks at the world in this way: ‘The world is expert in the dimension of infinite space.’
The world looks on at the world: it leads to the highest goal.

Who would take the world in the world?
Who here wouldn’t be keen?

The Buddha replied,

“Someone who is seen, heard, thought, or known:
“Seeing so little, having seen (them), dwelt in common,

and perception was likewise,
and perception and non-perception.

which is the view of the brahmins, etc.
that view is the defeat of views,

Who would specify in the world?”
Who in the world would be strenuous?”

if he does not get it in a lotus pond;
if it is not allowable;

nor even in the Dhamma,
don’t cut their backs,

One is not a brahmin by virtue,
One is not a brahmin studying for virtue,

they’ve crossed over to the far shore,

they do not take a lotus pond.
if it is not suitable to a lotus pond;

there are two eons:

Craving, Craving, Condition, and view.
Craving, the group of craving, and views,

What is contact?
What is craving?

From the ending of craving, made known by the head, made up of limited and excrement, made known.
From the limit of craving that was fixed in the same way as before, soon as the limit of craving has been performed,

This is my chickercy: ‘This is mine, Dāsaka’s, Possess, mines, citys, and countrys; and my bondservants and workers in the neighborhood of a village, town and country. And there are eight kinds of craving for elephants, capitals, thunder and horses.
This is how mine is prosperous, this is my relative. It’s at this point of sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and plunges into the neighborhood of the villages, towns, cities, and countries of elephants, horses and chariots, and heroes, goblins; and there are eight ornaments for birds of craving.

This is the contact of craving.
This is the tent of craving.

What is the Causality of views?
What is the water of views?

The ten grounds for views, twenty-two parts, thirty grounds for views, and tendencies. They’re attached to views, holding them tight, and refusing to let go. Nevertheless, the recipients of views is wrong thought, the sixty of views is wrong thought.
Ten grounds for identity views. The recipients of identity view, the recipients of wrong view, the thought, the recipients of views, the recipients of identity view, the recipients of the wrong view, the recipients. From view they hold on to activity. Cosmology and the acceptance of views. Their views have the recipient with wrong view. This is the sixty, the recipientsion, and the recipient.

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

Their craving, produced by them, has given up, relinquished them,
Their view of them has given up.

When craving has been given up, they don’t produce craving for views—due to make it be reborn in the next life, or they don’t produce may be reborn.
They don’t make them because they’ve given up craving and stilled views, nor do they keep themselves broken and damaged. They don’t raise their joined palms to them.

and do not make an eon.
and do not make a eon.

it does not syllable
it does not syllable:

before you finish two on water,
before she;

Craving, Delighting, and Pathful.
Craving is the essence of craving and view.

This is the aim of craving. ...
This is the essential ...

this is aiming at view.
this view is aiming at giving.

Of those who explain craving, given up the requisites,
Their craving is shown by craving and requisites.

Craving for craving, giving up craving for views, and craving for views don’t make amends for their views or realizations. Nor do they make no craving for views.
Their craving for giving up is seeking. They don’t give up craving for views. They don’t give rise to views or get hold of craving for views. Their craving for views don’t give up craving for views.

Not by craving or view, nor by associated with craving.
nor is craving for view after giving it up,

if he does not get it in a lotus pond;
if it is not allowable;

nor does the teachings exist.
nor did they acknowledge them.

These are called the sixty-two misconceptions.

They were perfected ones who have ended the defilements.
Those who are perfected ones who have ended the defilements.

the cosmos is eternal, and the cosmos is not eternal,
the cosmos is eternal, and the cosmos is not eternal. This is the only truth, other ideas are silly.

“The cosmos is not eternal ...” ...

‘The world is finite ...’ ...

‘The world is infinite ...’ ...

“The soul and the body are the same thing ...” ...
‘The soul and the body are the same thing ...’ ...

“The soul and the body are different things ...” ...
‘The soul and the body are different things ...’ ...

‘A Realized One exists after death ...’ ...

“A Realized One doesn’t exist after death ...” ...
‘A Realized One doesn’t exist after death ...’ ...

‘A Realized One both exists and doesn’t exist after death ...’ ...

‘A Realized One neither exists nor doesn’t exist after death. This is the only truth, other ideas are silly’?”

nor even in the Dhamma,
don’t cut their backs,

Not a brahmin is better for the virtuous
A brahmin is not better for an ethical person.

neither dissipate nor too.
neither long nor impingement.

Because of the seven things that you were a brahmin due to those seven things:
Seven things are due to the seven things that a brahmin:

identity view ...

is said to be Brahmā, the voice of Brahmā.
is said to be Brahmā, not including.

Not a brahmin is better for the virtuous
A brahmin is not better for an ethical person.

One cannot maintain by ethics, or by misapprehension of precepts and observances, and doesn’t lead them to heaven.
One cannot restrain a brahmin with virtue, nor does he lead someone who is virtuous and deceitful, and does not support them.

One is not a brahmin by virtue,
One is not a brahmin studying for virtue,

they’ve crossed over to the far shore,
they’ve crossed over to the far shore.

the deathless is called the deathless.
the deathless is called Nibbāna.

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

When they’ve reached the far shore, and the far shore, there’s no cycle, no destiny, and no rebirth into a new state of existence.
He has reached the far shore, the far shore, the end of the world, and the end of his birth.

With crossed over to the far shore,
crossing over to the far shore,

They don’t achieve the path that are corrupted by defilements, or they don’t achieve their defilements.
He doesn’t achieve the path where defilements are given up. He doesn’t get the defilements in the wilderness.

When a once-returner comes to a stream-enterer, there is no defilements in the future.
You don’t go on a stream-enterer, and don’t go. You don’t get the defilement of them.

Non-Returner, those who have given up defilements, and are unable to return.
He doesn’t go on a non-returner, and he doesn’t get the defilements in the future.

They haven’t abandoned the path to Worthiness, and they don’t reside in those defilements.
They don’t realize the undefiled freedom of heart and freedom by wisdom in this way. They don’t get tired.

They’ve crossed over to the far shore,

those who take care of the five lower fetters:
For five reasons:

They lie down, drinking, playing, and lute. They are pebbles, horses, buffaloes, bulls, government officials,
When bricks, timberations, are spreads, and strings were seized by the hands, the elephants, horses, chariots, and the drops,

How do they get lots of bricks?
How should they be found bitter,

Doing so, suffering, fame, and worms.
They get to be happy and recoil from pain.

If I were to beat the fragrance of one color,
If I was to build one fairy water, my arms would tremble with the other—

Not resentful, not over-associated with the hostile, fault-finding mind.
You don’t get rid of resentment for what leads to future lives or come. Your embarrass and you uprooted. Your elimination is abandoned.

So too, when they’re obtained,
Thus, brilliant,

And how does a Worthy One?
And how does a free man?

has given up sensual desire, renounced it, let it go, abandoned it, relinquished it,
has given up sensual desire ...

hate ...

delusion ...

anger ...

hostility ...

Makkhali ...

contempt ...
contemptuous ...

jealous ...
jealousy ...

stinginess ...

a magician ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

conceit ...
conceit,

overcoming ...
jealousy ...

vanity ...

negligence ...

all defilements ...

‘All of those who have bad conduct,
all of them have badly done. ...

all of them ...
all the stars ...

all of them ...
all fertiles ...

all of them ...
all of them are peaceful inside.

having given up all unskillful intentions, being agitated with agitated,
With the giving up of all unprofitable intentions they are dispelled,

that’s how a perfected one crosses.
that’s how a perfected one shoulders

How do you become free from enmity?
How do you get overcast?

I’ve crossed over the flood, cut off the grass, wood, and water, and the gravel all the grass and transmigration.
The flood has crossed over the flood. From the root they’ve crossed over to the far shore, but uncrowded in the far shore.

Because of this he crosses the flood and no further rebirth. Now there is no further rebirth.
Because of this he reappears old age and death. Now there is no further rebirth.

In the same way the poisonous snakes, (saying):
In the same way the perfected ones have crossed over.

How do they become frightened?
How do you become free from sage?

freed mind, and liberated mind, freed,
the perfected one, his mind is liberated, so liberated,

his mind is liberated, well freed, and well freed.
his mind is liberated, so liberated,

his mind is liberated, well freed,
his mind is liberated, so liberated,

anger ...

hostility ...

Makkhali ...
offensive ...

contempt ...

jealous ...
jealousy ...

stinginess ...
stingy ...

your mother ...
a magician ...

wrapped ...
Saying a wrap garment ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

conceit ...
conceit,

Not-Self ...
She says “We’re not getting better.” ...

vanity ...

negligence ...

so that defilements are defiled ...
so that all defilements ...

For all kinds of conduct ...
entirely full of bad conduct ...

given up everyone,
‘Overcome by all herons,

contemplates ...
of all kinds,

entirely ...

having a mind well freed, well freed, and well freed,
liberated in all the unwholesome minds, well freed,

Thus, free of vanity,
Such is the perfected one, free of poison.

How should I not?
How should he not beat the Teacher?

I am worthy of proper conduct, mindful, and aware.
One who is virtuous, possessed of virtue, strives, and are endowed with that virtue.

The faithful particulars of the Three Texts
The faithful partakes of mindfulness, etc., that he makes

energy...
(They are) energys that are energetic, and heedful,

When there is mindfulness, thus it is the Restraint
he is mindful.

When there is immersion, the birds serene .
When there is immersion, they are immersed in samādhi,

with wisdom, poised, cleared, and diligent.
with wisdom, preserves, flatterers, and wisely.

the master of the three knowledges, which are very clear to him.
he is the master of the three knowledges, he is the opposite kind.

who has directly known the six direct knowledges, and having the six kinds of direct knowledge,
he is the six direct knowledges, who has known the six direct knowledges,

the recitation placed him like this.”
Thus he gave you that joy.”

they’ve crossed over to the far shore,

The Buddha replied,

“The rivers do not come before,
“They do not start in a lotus pond,

nor even in the Dhamma,
don’t cut their backs,

One is not a brahmin by virtue,
One is not a brahmin studying for virtue,

they’ve crossed over to the far shore.”

The fifth section on the ultimate goal
The fifth ruler of the earth

