Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

6. Jarāsuttaniddesa

Respectfully, he declares
Remembering the Discourse on the Teaching

may this life is short,
for the life is short,

At the end of a hundred years,
And even if he were to a hundred years,

Even if someone makes his livelihood thus,
If you earn a living

But they still followed by old age.
and the same householder’s old.

a little is truly short,
* may they live a short life!

life faculty, continuity, and life.
(There is) the life faculty, which is endless, a continuation, (having) a life faculty, which is the restraint of life,

even if you live for two reasons, little is only for life.
Furthermore, there’s little with little. They live on for their life, thinking,

Is eating little or little, little, little, measureless life would live.
Is that lasting little or that life is short, extensive, limited,

How could we live long for the endless life?
How do you live longing for the end

In the past conscious moment not he did live, not he will live.”
In the past conscious moment not he did live, he does live, he will live.

In a future conscious moment not he did live, not he does live, he will live.

In the present conscious moment not he did live, not he will live.”
In the present conscious moment not he did live, he does live, not he will live.”

“Living in life-form,
“Life life-form and protection,

or feel pleasure and pain,
or feel pleasure and pain:

unified in mind,
calmed thoughts,

it’s like a flame,
the very moment I will pull out

I have a thousand leagues.”
she was well-spheresed.

stand for the eon.
these (etc.) means those who live indeed.

But they don’t live as alive.
But they still don’t live.

Two parts of their mind is restrained;
Two parts of the mind.

Those who see the immaculate
“One from all attachments,

Forget they stand here,
or Forget your mind here,

all the aggregates
all the directions,

Without everyone of them, she said:
Without making an offering on trust,

and when there are no broken fires
And when there are no dangers

But those who are unbroken,
and those who are tired,

immediately
the immediately prevented from it.

for none of these has no characteristic.
for one characteristics is uneven.

not reborn in another’s womb,
not reborn in a place,

who lives off presently:
they live presently.

The world is dead and secured by thought,
The world’s home is dead.

What is allowed.
What is allowed:

flowing down to the plains,
flowing along the stream,

by desire,
by desire.

terminators proceed to the rest.
His conduct then:

because of the six sense spheres:
with the six sense-spheres as condition: the six sense-spheres,

Experiencing herons,
ignoble, spotless,

a fool may not come again.
you’re like a fool,

those who are extinguished, and those who are disillusioned
and those who are extinguished,

like a mustard seed off the point of a pin,
like a mustard seed on a needle,

Because of the things
Because of this,

honored by the forest.
honored by the sky.

they fall apart,
Endowed means light.

Through fear of my former wife,
by old age and death.

They look for not to see the sight.
because they see clearly.

While going along the Saṅgha,
while going along the Saṅgha.

and the arising of thought.
like the starting in the sky.

and they’re born.”
and they’re reborn.”

Thus the end of remaining is short,
In this way the end of stagnation and the life of purity

Who are you even with little life?
Who should live diligently, having little life, and his life takes up?

I was bound up with the life force, my life is tranquilized, my life is bound to the end of life. In-breaths and out-breaths are not bound up with life.
I’ll breathe in and breathe out, like a long-breath, my body is unbroken, my life is bound up with the attachment of life. Rebirth is ended, my life is bound up with the bodily form of a living being, my life is ended.

It’s weak, root, and weak. It’s weak.
It’s the feeble, weak, feeble, blemish, and weakness. It has a weakness together with these things.

these mutually constantly are mutually without faults.
Acording each other, these are prescribed by each other.

do not despise each other,
and these are not set aside.

Nothing is found in me.
Even if there is no shelter,

“No filthy ought not having any others.
“No-one can roll away,

while fairies,
and observes all of them,

(Also) these were not developed,
These were the immediately abidings

For those who in the past were dead,
Even if she was dead,

For previously
For they are the first time

bordering on each other, they have no trampled at all.”
each other’s eyes, solitary, and crushing.”

That’s how there is little guilt dwelling with the life of purity.
That’s how there is little guiltness and smallness.

Rather, life is short, brief, and fleeting, people with little life are short to live. They’re not shorter than life. They live in dependence on life, not even for life.
Rather, the gods of the Four Great Kings are short of the gods, but rather than a little. They have little life little life, yet ends, life after life, short-span. Your life is short, not shorter.

the Gods of the Thirty-Three ...

the Gods of Yama ...

the Joyful Gods ...

the Gods Who Love to Create ...

the Gods Who Control the Creations of Others ...

the life of the gods are short, brief, and fleeting, short, bitter, so long as life lasts, not even for a living, not even for life!
the life of the gods of Brahmā’s Host is short, brief, and limited. They have little life little life little life, mucher than life. They’d live on for a long time.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, human life span is short, brief, and fleeting. We must think about this and wake up! We must do what’s good and lead the spiritual life, for no-one born can escape death.
“Mendicants, consider giving up the life span of the people are headed for a hundred years. We must think about this and wake up! Do what’s good and lead the spiritual life, for no-one born can escape death.

A long life is a hundred years or a little more.

short, life,
A life span of humans is short,

and a good person scorns it.

They should live as though their head was on fire,

for Death comes for everyone.

rush by night and days,
The days and nights rush by,

and then life is cut short.

The life of mortals is running out.
The life of mortals keeps running away.

like grass in the water.”
like water bathing in the river.

may this life is short,
for the life is short,

And even if they fall into the century.
And even if you imagine it is a hundred years.

And at the time of the kalalalalalala, the porch vanishes and the clouds.
the targets, drops, and runs away.

if she bathes at the wrong time, the targets vanishes and the porches fell into it.
if she stands at the wrong time, then the precincts vanished.

And they gladly, they lose the dirt at the wrong time.
And if he drews the ghost realm, it becomes plagued and falls away.

if he abandons it at the wrong time, but drives it away, and plunders it;
if he stands at the wrong time, thinking, “They’re shake;

At the time of wretching, too, the monkey vanishes and pus.
At the time of the embracing water, the plunges into the honey, and the lump of meat vanishes.

he abandons his gold, penis and the very best.
he abandons his gold, plunders and falls away.

if she ropes it on the street in the house; it starts and falls away.
Living in a house, he fells down, and the monkey abandons it.

As a fortnight before it vanishes, it becomes plunges into melted.
When the blow was over, the snake fells it disappears.

Or they fall away from Mātaliputta, thinking:
he abandons his Māra’s army and the snare.

two months ...

an astute person ...
Vassakāra ...

four months ...

it fells and falls away from five months.
And the group-of-five monks lasted, they abandon him.

six months ...

seven months ...

eight months ...

nine months ...

ten months ...

It’s strikes, plunders vanish, and it bathes and falls away.
A storms and swords vanish.

two years ...

three years ...
yellow ...

four years ...
for four years ...

five years ...

six years ...

seven years ...

eight years old ...
Eight years,

nine years ...
for nine years,

ten years ...

twenty years old ...

thirty years ...

forty ...
forty years,

...
...”

for six years ...
sixty-six years,

...
seven years ...

lacking rapture ...
dissolution ...

And during the rain fell into the sky.
Neither rains, crushing, and plunges into it.

At the end of a hundred years,
And even if he were to a hundred years,

If someone passes away,
If you earn a living by any kind of livelihood,

One might live for a hundred years, or one who lives for the rains residence;
A one might live for a hundred years, or one who lives for the rains residence.

who lives for two years,

who lives for three years,

who lives off four years,
who lives off the four rules.

five years ...

who lives for ten years,

she twenty years, twenty,
if he lives for twenty years;

Thirty years, and forty years.
thirty years or forty years.

Even if someone makes his livelihood thus,
If you earn a living

they’re still decayed by old age.
and they still have old age.

When an old man is old, elderly and senior, advanced in years, and has reached the final stage of life—eighty, ninety, or a hundred years old—he will lose his teeth, the grey and brows.
When an old man is old, elderly, and senior, advanced in years, having reached the final stage of life—eighty, nimble, crooked, leaning on a staff, trembling as they walk, ailing, past their prime, with teeth broken, hair grey and scanty or bald, skin wrinkled, and limbs blotchy.

Fruits in a fruit,
I took a fruit

from the morning there is fear,
fearing the foster from the morning.

when they’re born
So too when you’re born

always fearing death;

As a potter

done by the King,
made by the drank,

all that has a schism
all the way is unity.

So too a mortal may live like this,
so life for mortals

and a little baby.
and a little baby,

those who are astute
those who are wise ones, who are competent,

all fear conquer the other.
all the mortals reach.

they are all bound to death.
for all beings,

for it’s a destroyer of death.
when they fall,

Go from the next world
Go to the next world,

your father, child,
your father, children and partners;

Or else they have been sent by relatives.
or else one’s relatives

grief, lamentation, and despair,
our departed relatives.

See, fancy,
seers of foliage,

even a single person
But even a single person

like a cowherd with its cow.
like a cowherd in the middle.

In this way the world is beaten down.
The world is beaten down like this.

transmigration, and old age.”
let go of death, and old age.”

But they still followed by old age.
and the same householder’s old.

The Buddha replied,

“Oh! this life is short,

At the end of a hundred years,
And even if he were to a hundred years,

Even if someone makes his livelihood thus,
If you earn a living

But they still spit in the world.”
and then they’re still deer.”

sorrows folk and war,
look for people who wished for people

There are no signs that are permanent.
for anyone who is possessive.

I’ve developed this peaceful state,
When the state of peace is peaceful,

so the wild elephant, after seeing an abscess.
Seeing this, the giant.

Those people look after them after them.
look for people who look for people

aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers were both gods and humans.
people, aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers.

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is the craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

The worm-infested cloth, those who were honey-covered and the non-staple food dead, and in the same place as before.
They weared just because the bed wasnch, thinking it was cut down, and they lay down there.

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion, saying:
They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion:

sorrows folk and war,
look for people who wished for people

For if there are no such thing as:
For there are no possession of nutriments:

Two possesses:
there are two kinds of possession:

craving and view ...
Craving is the possession of craving and views. ...

This is the possession of craving ...

this is the possession of views.

Craving is impermanent, conditioned, dependently originated, liable to end, vanish, fade away, and cease.

views,
views are impermanent, conditioned, dependently originated, liable to end, vanish, fade away, and cease.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, do you see any such possession?”

“No, Sir.”
“No, sir.”

“Good, mendicants!

I also can’t see any such possession.”

There is no such thing as permanent, everlasting, eternal, and imperishable.
are permanent, everlasting, eternal, or imperishable.

There are no signs that are permanent.
for anyone who is possessive.

dwelling peaceful and with mind.
where they discover,

foundations that are different, found in the state of being founded on.
Wise Ones, some sort of differentiations are found in them.

for this is said by the Buddha,
for this was said by the Buddha,

“Enough, Ānanda!

Do not grieve, don’t lament,
don’t grieve or lament.

Did I not prepare for this when I explained that

we must be parted and separated from all we hold dear and beloved?

How can it be otherwise, Ānanda?
How could it possibly be otherwise?

Whatever born, become, conditioned, and liable to fall apart should not fall apart.’
Whatever born, become, indeed, he is liable to fall apart.

That is not possible.

the first aggregates before the settlement of the sense fields and the elements included in the elements of the sense fields and the foundation for the sense fields.”
the first categories and the constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for the aggregates, the elements, and the sense fields—they settlement of aggregates.”

I’ve developed this peaceful state,
When the state of peace is peaceful,

Seeing this the dragon
Seeing this, the giant.

Such (supernatural) vision was full of the blazing, and comprising a new lotus pond.
And the lotus ponds from the influence of the eighty (people) gracefully with the Pubbavinda.

And so, after seeing thus, they do assert the provisions because they were unable to discern them, and after becoming arriving, he inserted, saying,
And so, after seeing thus, they saw the Tipilavatthu with the immediate result, and developing them,

And after seeing (him), he said this to the monks:
Having seen (that), he said this to Mahāpajāpatī Gotamī:

As soon as he’d cut off all judgments, my property and children cut off his limbs into houses and children, and gets shaved off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.
after cutting off the top of the young Nāgas, prevented the Dragons, having cut off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness. Then I’d draged the lay life, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.

so the wild elephant, after seeing an abscess.
Seeing this, the giant.

The Buddha replied,

“Peoples and dust people look down,
“Peoples people with good people, thinking: ‘They are coming,

There are no signs that are permanent.
for anyone who is possessive.

I’ve developed this peaceful state,
When the state of peace is peaceful,

like a wild bull elephant.
like an elephant in the jungle.”

Even if you die at death, you’ll be given up.
Death will be given up.

for a person who thinks it
For a man thinks I’m still thinker.

for they’re a wise one,
When a wise one understands this,

I revere Him, the perfected one, who is my living I revere.
I revere Him of mine: I revere.

they’ll give up death.
Death will be given up.

The passing away, perishing, disintegration, demise, mortality, death, decease, breaking up of the aggregates, laying to rest of the corpse, and cutting off of the life faculty of the various sentient beings in the various orders of sentient beings.
The passing away and rebirth of the various sentient beings in the various orders of sentient beings. They pass away from that host of gods, disdainted by the various orders of sentient beings, breaking up of the aggregates, and laying to rest of the corpse.

included in form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.

It gives up, abandons, sloth, and decline.
gives up conceit, eradicated, and abandons it, and abandons it.

And it’s appropriate for him to say:
The Buddha has said,

“In the past life they give up wealth,
“In the past life they give up their wealth,

like a mortal abandons it sooner.
like a mortal abandons the past.

Wealth is not eternal, O Lover of Yourself,

therefore I do not grieve at the wrong time,
That’s why I do not grieve at the wrong time.

The moon rises, becoming full, and then wanes again,

The sun after blazing sun
The sun after blazing the sun

I have dispelled the world, Seer, who knows the world,
may the world be destroyed by me, ~ -

I do not grieve at the wrong time.”
that’s why I do not grieve at the wrong time.”

Even if you die at death, you’ll be given up.
Death will be given up.

A person with bad views
A man remembers whatever they think,

They contemplate the phenomena there, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
They contemplate the phenomena, in feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.

A person understands how to constricts. It is a name for the designation of laws and changes.
A man considers the designation of reckonings: “You should prepare a legal procedure of reckoning.”

They identify with that, they identify regarding craving, they identify as a misconception, they identify as a witness, and running out of desire for the residue of conceit.
They think about and consider it as having given up craving. They think about it as unfinished views, resentment, deliberate, and specifically identifying.

for a person who thinks it
For a man thinks I’m still thinker.

a wise one understands this.
for this is a wise one,

Knowing this, the wise one, having understood the dispensation, whose veneration is such, and having known me. He is wise, learned, intelligent, and mindful.
When he knew this, the drawbacks in having understood the Tusita breaking off (these), he reached the end of the life. He is wise, clever, and develops the knowledge of this matter, he is the wise, fully developed:

for they’re a wise one,
When a wise one understands this,

I revere Him, the one free of these.
I revere Him, who is not free from these things:

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

Don’t want to be Buddha, so Ātumātā.
May the Buddha be rightful, immoral!

He declined in Macchikāsaṇḍa.
He is the Fortunate One, for the person he declined.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, those mendicants who are deceivers, stubborn, flatterers, frauds, insolent, and scattered: they are no mendicants of mine.

Those mendicants have left this teaching and training.

They don’t achieve growth, improvement, or maturity in this teaching and training.
they don’t achieve growth, improvement, or maturity in this teaching and training.

But those mendicants who are genuine, not flatterers, wise, amenable, and serene: they are mendicants of mine.

and those monks haven’t left this teaching and training.
and these monks haven’t left this teaching and training.

They achieve growth, improvement, and maturity in this teaching and training.

deceivers, stubborn, flatterers, and frauds,

lacking immersion, those without immersion.
lacking immersion,

don’t grow in the teaching
these don’t grow in the teaching

that was taught by the perfected Buddha.

But those who are genuine, not flatterers, wise,

my hands are perfectly serene.
my mind is serene.

these do grow in the teaching

that was taught by the perfected Buddha.”

I revere Him, the one free of these.
I revere Him, who is not free from these things:

Don’t let go of that view, and fix that view. After giving up my view, they wouldn’t stay firm, and fail to keep up that.
having given up craving and view, I wouldn’t enjoy irreversible to give up that view, and I wouldn’t stay in that state of existence.

I revere Him, the perfected one, who is my living I revere.
I revere Him of mine: I revere.

The Buddha replied,

“Even though one is given up,
“As a person gives up by consequence,

for a person who thinks it
For a man thinks I’m still thinker.

for they’re a wise one,
When a wise one understands this,

I revere Him, the Holy One.”
I don’t want to harm me.”

Even if they were dreaming in a dream,
Even if you sleep on dry land

they don’t see the Buddha.
they do not see a man who is wakened.

those who have loved ones
those who have loved it.

let them not see the passing of the time.
But it doesn’t see that there’s no passing away.

(They do), just as they dream.
(thinking): the makers that have been included in the stream

When the Saṅgha is immersed in samādhi, it’s immersed in samādhi.
Concert, it’s immersion, and

Even if they were dreaming in a dream,
Even if you sleep on dry land

A person awakened, they see that the moon, the sun, and the clouds. And they see that the sun, the Sineru, the king of mountains, looking at the open.
A man would not see a Buddha.

delightful places.
lovely ...

Lotus Pond has a lotus pond.
One like a lotus pond,

He won’t see any kind of Buddha
The Buddha does not see anywhere.

they don’t see the Buddha.
they do not see a man who is wakened.

those people visited by laughing,
So even though people die

just as the consenting of formations
just as the accepting of the shoulder and the gratitude.

They die, or their mother or father, their brother, or sister.
The mother-in-law of her father, a child, a mother, or a father, a brother, or sister. And she provides her mother or father or a brother or a sister for her relatives or family.

those who have loved ones
those who have loved it.

But if they don’t see it died.
it’s not appropriate for someone to die.

clay is what is meant.
while the departed is what is meant.

They don’t see someone who has died, nor does they see, nor get rid of them.
They don’t see a customs station, nor do they see it.

let them not see the passing of the time.
But it doesn’t see that there’s no passing away.

The Buddha replied,

“The astute would make
“They have come to be included in the pleasures,

they don’t see the Buddha.
they do not see a man who is wakened.

those who have loved ones
those who have loved it.

See the time will not see a dead.”
can’t see a dead person.”

are those people seen who have heard
you have seen the people.

is called ‘mind’.
is said to be ‘mind’.

for it’ll stay in my name.
for namely,

Excellent in your guild!
a personal transmigration.

are seen who have heard.
you have seen the people.

Those who have seen the eye, and those things that are uprooted,
Those who are seen (yet) eye-consciousness, and those clinging to eye-consciousness,

Those who are well born in ear, nose,
Those who are well born in mind consciousness,

Those people, aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers were go forth, gods and humans—
Those people who are aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers were reborn as gods and humans—when they have gone forth, both gods and humans—

are those people seen who have heard
you have seen the people.

is said to be ‘mind’.

for those who have gone forth as a maidens, dwarf gods, humans, and renunciates.
For those who have gone forth as an aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers.

namely, “virtuous” , the name of the clause consisting of what is reckoned as phrases is called “without taking”.
the names of the designation of name, clay, and preparing, is called “withstanding”.

They’re called ‘one who explains’. They’re said to grow disillusioned, dispassionate, and freed from it.
is said to be a speaker, one who is said to be blamed, one who grows declarings what is called.

is called ‘mind’.
is said to be ‘mind’.

They’ll keep on safe.
would abuse him.

When form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness vanishes.
Grain of form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness are given up. He disappears, it disappears, and disappears.

were to say:
:

If you are able to explain what is meant, you should proclaim what is the point of giving directions.
Please speak to explain, you should proclaim what is to be done.

soaking them in debt,
for name and clan will befit,

of departing they’re dying.
when you’re departed to ghost.

When the passing of the ghost realm passed away.
and he died.

Seven people have not even a hundred years of age. They’re Jessa, who give birth to a weeping place of loss,
Seven people are not satisfied to look Jotipāla’s beautiful; they age the year of the Jewels, their native spirits, and their birth.

of departing ghosts.
when you’re departed to ghost;

The Buddha replied,

“I’ve seen clearly, so did you.
“Has been seen and heard for you,

is called ‘mind’.
is said to be ‘mind’.

for it’ll stay in my name.
for namely,

free of attachments.”
a personal transmigration.”

made up of the clear,
Is that group of people

give up greed and hate,
the rivers that were not overpowered,

That’s why a sage is discerning
That’s why a sage should possess the possessions.

having given up safety, who is a safe place.
Having given up safety, they saw the sanctuary.

They give up desire for the stream of stinginess.
They give up the stain of stinginess, they don’t give up sloth and torpor.

experienced by loss of relatives, grief, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress, they have someone undergone misconception.
He experiences loss of relatives, grief, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

sorrow and wail and lament ...
sorrowing and wailing ...

When someone experiences sorrow and wail and lament, wailing and lamenting, state of wailing and lamentation in someone who has undergone misfortune, who has experienced suffering.
When someone, wails, laments, wailing, lamenting, state of wailing and lamentation in someone who has undergone misfortune, who has experienced suffering.

stinginess:
stingy, and stingy.

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such stinginess is jealousy, stingy, deviousness, and deceitfulness.
such fondness and stingy, embracing like a fish box, swamp, or unification of mind.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Stinginess, stinginess, deceit, and dwelling.
Still, stinginess, disliked and stinginess, are stinginess with the jealousy, and stinginess.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

These are honey-covered and the unclear, lamented, and perished. They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion, saying:
They wear one clothes and beards, thinking: ‘Such is cut,’ and they remain there unallowable. And when decayed, they sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion, saying:

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

were guarded and protected by the stains, namely, protection, and hunger.
They protected by the bearer, they protected by the stains, spots, and fish.

They don’t give up sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress. They don’t give up sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
They don’t sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. They don’t give up sorrow, wailing, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

They’ve given up the axe and singing, give up desire for it.
the streams of the river that flows from a river, which gives up and shaking.

So they went to a sage, who has not taken up the Sage’s flesh,
Therefore they, having given up the sage, who is a sanctuary, left sanctuary,

That’s why it comes to be for that reason.
That’s why it comes to be that reason.

therefore it is fitting to do something as a sign.’

the sage gone beyond delusion is what is meant.
the knowledge of the moment of ugliness is what is meant.

Understanding as understanding of principles, right view, and right thought.
wisdom ...

By that knowledge, the sage endowed with wisdom,
By that deluded the sage who has reached (the end),

Three kinds of sagacity:

Sagacity of body, speech, and mind. ...

The sages from their chains,
The sages have escaped their chains.

Two possessive:
there are two kinds of possession:

craving and view ...
Craving is the possession of craving and views. ...

This is the possession of craving ...

this is the possession of views.

Then they took up the views, but having given up craving for views, got rid of, eliminated, and obliterated them. They sustained themselves, but went to the neighborhood of the instance.
Then they served and satisfied the views, but having given up that view. They did not give up it up, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterated it. They did as they were unable to perform their part.

whose sanctuary is safe, secure, and free of attachments.
Having seen that safety, secure Nibbāna, which is called the deathless,

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

Seeing the Truth as safe, secure, and blind to the deathless.
Seeing the sanctuary, extinguishment.

Therefore they got up, having someone else’s partners, who were sanctuary secure,
Therefore the Sage, having given up sense pleasures, went to safety,

The Buddha replied,

“Sometimes the maidens,
“Some ascetics and brahmins

They don’t abandon you when they like.
They do not give (his) shaking away,

That’s why a sage is discerning
That’s why a sage should possess the possessions.

having given up safety, free of danger.”
having given up safety, may they see the sanctuary.”

for a mendicant who enjoys wickedness,
for a mendicant whose shakes off wickedness,

moves fear of terrors,
when you’re speaking,

took the road to him, and he gave him to his wife.
After the road, for him whom he was setting out.

when you’re self-control,

for a mendicant whose resort is ready,
for a mendicant whose shakes off:

the seven kinds of trainers are said to be trainers.
said to be the seven kinds of good conduct.

and delights withdrawn.
and delights in heaven.

The seventy-two aspects of action are called “ascetic”.
The seven kinds of conduct.

So when they protect their minds, get caught up in them, engage in malicious talebearing them, pervading them, and shield their minds to be rolled towards them. And they proceed as though they walk, do so, they plunge into a balance.
Yet when they do so, get a good rolling around, they cover themselves with insight. And as they do, they keep on strapsing their minds. They gaze. They guard and protect you like. They proceed when they’re standing, they wield the rolling mass. And they proceed, thinking:

They practice breathing in immersing the mind.
They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

nose ...
nose a nose ...

tongue in body ...
They restrain the mind on the tongue ...

They practice like this: ‘I’ll breathe in the body ...
the body ...

When the mind is impartially wounded, pressed, and grinding them together, they keep themselves healthy. And they proceed as guarding.
While waiting, they endeavour, and lend an ear. And they guard their minds as much as they like.

Just as a chicken’s feather or a strip of sinew thrown in a fire, shrivel, or a strip of sinew.
Just as a chicken’s feather or a strip of sinew thrown in a fire, shrivel, or a strip of rolls.

In the same way, when the mind is full of binding the body, they keep themselves healthy and whole. They keep themselves safe.
In the same way, when the mind is full of hunger, protected, and squealed, they keep company with doors.

They’re aroused by ears ...
They’re like the ears ...

nose ...
nose a nose ...

tongue in body ...
They restrain the mind on the tongue ...

They practice like this: ‘I’ll breathe in the body ...
the body ...

When the mind is impartially wounded, pressed, and grinding them together, they keep themselves healthy. And they proceed as guarding.
While waiting, they endeavour, and lend an ear. And they guard their minds as much as they like.

Seven on reasons is what is meant.
These are called the seven kinds of conduct;

A mendicant trainee,
It’s good when an ordinary person, whether the monk’s training or the army of the monk

for a mendicant who enjoys wickedness,
for a mendicant whose shakes off wickedness,

when anyone who lives in distributors are called the seats’.
Bothing and dwellingting.

a mattress, a mat underlay, a bedspread, a straw mat, a hide, a sitting mat, a sheet, a hide.
a mattress, a bed, a mattress, a straw mat, a hide, a foot-washing water, and a carpet.

They don’t engage in all kinds of unsuitable things. They hear the sound of disturbed and drunk away. They’re pushed when it comes to the marriage.
so they don’t see what’s unsuitable, liberating, and preparing the seats of others.

Unsuitable,
Unsuitable, for the sake of a consequence ...

milk ...
uncontracticed ...

dwells without concern for the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
secluded from the five strands, secluded from sense desires, he entered inside.

So he frequents and gets a seat without using what he has.
So they frequently enjoy a seat from falternative places.

moves fear of terrors,
when you’re speaking,

Since he is able to have him, he who does not have his welfare,
Understanding the path he who does not, he who begins you in.

Three kinds of path:
The three kinds of road:

countless paths,
the courtesan of the Dhamma, disagreeable path,

What is the variety of paths?
What is the group

If many monks live in harmony like this, they live in harmony, appreciating each other, without quarreling, blending like milk and water, and regarding each other with kindly eyes.
If many monks live in harmony, appreciating each other, without quarreling, blending like milk and water, and regarding each other with kindly eyes.

this is the Book of the group.
this is the group of travelers.

What is the teaching?

the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.

They emerge from the oneness, separated, and mindful,
They flaw unifteenth, and they become immersed in samādhi.

Those things don’t have arguments—
Those things don’t argue with such a dispute:

this is the teaching.

What is the path?
What is the path to rebirth?

Even if many monks are extinguished without remainder, they become fully extinguished through the natural principle of extinguishment.
Even if many monks are extinguished without remainder,

it is not known
it is not known that the Emancipation-element is either depleted or filled with wisdom.

This is the path,
This is the path to rebirth.

Sentient beings who hell and the animal realm are reborn in hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm. They’re reborn in the underworld, hell.
the animal realm, the ghost realm, or human life,

Since he is able to have him, he who does not have his welfare,
Understanding the path he who does not, he who begins you in.

They’d not show that such a conscious path that is proper, and one who doesn’t give it up, gets rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it. When they’re not shown themselves to the underworld, hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm.”
Since they’re able to give up this value of path, it would be appropriate for you to show that kind of hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm. That is, they wouldn’t make themselves happy and pleased, nor do they make themselves happy.

Since he is able to have him, he who he who does not have his welfare,
Understanding the path he who does no wrong to you,

The Buddha replied,

“For the monk who is liquor
“Seeing the monk’s own territory

moves fear of terrors,
when you’re speaking,

took the road to him, and he gave him to his wife.
After the road, for him whom he was setting out.

when the self is not tamed.”
when the self-mortifier doesn’t tame others.”

everywhere undeveloped in every way,
being undecided everywhere,

and don’t love it.
don’t like or approve of even.

while crying and lamenting—
while weeping and lamenting

As the wind cannot rise ear,
Just as when the rain falls into it,

everywhere undefinished,
being everywhere free.

all twelve sense fields:

The eye and sights, the ear and sounds, the nose and smells, the tongue and tastes, the body and touches, and the mind and thoughts.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
knowledge of delusion is called the Sage who is called a sage of being inclusive,

Without anything left over:
Without being attached to:

Two monks:
Two supports:

Craving, giving up craving,
You’re reborn in a lower realm. ...

This is the ending of craving. ...

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

for giving up craving, self-control, views, and ignorance.
the sage has given up that craving and view, and he gives up his vision. He then improperly attacks to the ear ...

sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. ...
sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts ...

... to a family ...
... obtains ...

praise ...

a robe ...

almsfood ...
alms-food ...

... furniture ...
furniture ...

...
who’s sick,

sensuality ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

the formless realm ...

continued existence ...
sensual pleasures, craving to continue existence, and craving to end existence.

continued existence ...

They truly understand form ...
form ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

continued existence ...

It is the five kinds of choice ...
four blessings ...

past ...

seen ...
what is seen ...

the known ...

All these things are reinforced, not unattached, uncomprehended, liberated, and free of an openness. They live with a mind free of limits.
All these things are reinforced, not unknowned, unseen, uncomfortable, liberated, detached, my mind free of limits.

everywhere undefeated,
being undefeated everywhere, in all places,

and being unpleasant they don’t dislike.
nor do they make.

two loves:
the two fathers:

or (mental) processes
sentient beings, or choices

What seven?
Which seven?

Your mother and father are all right here, desired, and wives. Your mother and father, brother, sister, relatives, or clan as guardian.
It’s when those who want to have a husband, desires, observed their mother and father, brothers, sisters, relatives, or clan as guardian.

these beings
these seven days after the beings

What are (volitional) processes?

Sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

these (mental) processes
These are the conditions for choices.

The two unsuitable way:
Or two unpleasants:

or (mental) processes
sentient beings, or choices

What seven?
What are the teachings grouped by seven?

Here those who haven’t desires, who want to harm, and who want to take his life and want to kill him, thinking:
It’s when you don’t want to harm you; they want to take his life; they want to die, want to kill him and take his life.

These beings are unlike those
these sentient beings are still not reborn.

What are (volitional) processes?
What are (mental) processes that are unpleasant?

sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
disagreeable sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

these (mental) processes are unpleasant to conditions.
These (mental) processes are unliked by conditions,

and being unpleasant they don’t dislike.
nor do they make.

“This being is my dear and beloved to me ...”
“This is my dear and beloved to me in one who is dear and appealing to these (mental) processes.”

“I was disliked by my opposing and conforming to these choices.” But the Buddha does not grieve or produce her.
“This is unpleasant to me, and I don’t like it.” They do not call them in detail, they don’t go to was reborn in Heavenly-workers, or neither exists nor doesn’t exist.

and don’t love it.
don’t like or approve of even.

And while that one lamentation in it is not called an impediment.
In that place one laments, like a palm stump,

there that person who are Worthy Ones have ended the defilements.
therefore those who are Worthy Ones,

experienced and sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
experiences sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

stinginess:
stingy, and stingy.

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such stinginess is jealousy, stingy, deviousness, and deceitfulness.
such fondness and stingy, embracing like a fish box, swamp, or unification of mind.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Stinginess, stinginess, deceit, and dwelling.
Still, stinginess, disliked and stinginess, are stinginess with the jealousy, and stinginess.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

As the wind cannot rise ear does not cling
Just as when the rain falls into the sky,

with leaves are what is meant.
a tail is what is meant.

water is what is meant.

Suppose an impediment for a person, the crossing of the river is not a lake, no more perfected one, the fully awakened Buddha. She doesn’t lamented at that person, nor does not get rid of ill will.
Like an iron cross-legged. They don’t shake or tremble or get rid of the hair, nor beards, tends, and laments—but they don’t get rid of the perfected ones.

But the person who is perfected—who has no defilements or attachments. They don’t cling to them, committed to the end of their defilements.
But the person perfected ones don’t swampe the defilements. They don’t shake or tremble or get rid of the corruptions. They don’t stay inliding, neglecting the property of their hearts. They live unattached, liberated, their heart free of limits.

And when he lamentation (there is) neither too little nor too much,
In that place one laments, like a nailed one,

The Buddha replied,

“One who has not given up all,

and don’t love it.
don’t like or approve of even.

while crying and lamenting—
while weeping and lamenting

like the wind does not swallow them.”
the rivers that are not swept away.”

like a drop from a lotus-leaf.
As a drop with a lotus-leaf,

Just as a lotus flower or a barley
Like a water-lilies in the sky,

so the sage, not attachments.
so the sage whose head is not free.

that is to say: regardless of whether or not,
that is to say: be seen or heard;

Just as a drop of water Lying on the bank
As a drop with a lotus leaf,

a drop of water is what is meant.
water is what is meant.

lotus pond is what is meant.
a lotus pond is what is meant.

Suppose there is a bowl of water that is not covered with club, doesn’t impediment, though it’s undefined.
Just as there is a bowl of waterlilies, or a lump of lotus, the clusters don’t cooked rice with the pots of water,

like a drop from a lotus-leaf.
As a drop with a lotus-leaf,

As the water does not cling to a lotus pond,
does not sink in the water-place,

Paduma is what is meant.
Padumavatī is what is meant.

water is what is meant.

Just as the water flies are not covered with flowers, and no clinging to it is undeclared,
Just as a rain falls into the sky, the water does not cling to the air, sockets, is unenclosed,

Just as a lotus flower or a barley
Like a water-lilies in the sky,

This is how the sage has seen or heard of using.
This is how a sage seen sage in regard to things that are seen, heard, or thought.

just as the consenting of formations
just as the accepting of the shoulder and the gratitude.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
knowledge of delusion is called the Sage who is called a sage of being inclusive,

There are two kinds of plastering:
there are two kinds of shelter:

Craving, Etc. ...
Craving, and view.

This is the shelter of craving. ...
This is the shell.

This view is the idiot of view.
This is the idea of view.

They give up craving for views, and don’t shake or tremble or get rid of the view. They don’t shake or tremble or get rid of their seats. They don’t stay firm, and fail to get rid of the stain of stinginess.
He gives up craving for the shame, he doesn’t get rid of resistance. He doesn’t lie down when he sees clearly. He doesn’t get rid of remote lodgings. He doesn’t stay firm, and fails to get rid of the irritable, secluded, he doesn’t stay firm, and fails to get free of ill will.

Thus this is the sage who have seen (not) after hearing like this:
so the sage who has seen these things, that is, heard, thought, or sensed -

The Buddha replied,

“Like a lotus pond,

Just as a lotus flower or a barley
Like a water-lilies in the sky,

so the sage, not attachments.
so the sage whose head is not free.

that is to say whether seen or heard.”
that is, because of what is seen or heard.”

For there is no measure of because of that.
For a bereft does not identify with that,

that is to say: regardless of whether or not,
that is to say, one in regard to what is seen,

they do not want to be purity with purity.
is seeking purity by means of purity.

for he isn’t desire today,
There is no desire for pleasure,

For there is no anger in regard to this when seen, heard, and thought.
For there is no prison that is, namely, the thought with regards,

You’re called wisdom because they have.
Hashed down is what is called.

Understanding as understanding of principles, right view, and right thought.
wisdom ...

the wisdom there is from falling away from what is meant.
What is called wisdom combined with what is meant?

Understanding that bad bodily conduct, the scoundrels, and the blazing
Understanding that bad bodily conduct, and Hard, he washed and down,

verbal conduct ...

by way of body, speech, and mind,
mental conduct, and the conceited contempt,

Greed and shaken off,
Greed and shaking off,

hate ...

delusion ...

anger ...

hostility ...

Makkhali ...

contempt ...

jealous ...
jealousy ...

stinginess ...

a magician ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

conceit ...
conceit,

overcoming ...
jealousy ...

vanity ...

negligence ...

all defilements ...

all of them have a bad conduct.
all of them have badly done. ...

all of them ...
all the stars ...

all of them ...
all passions ...

all of them ...
all of them are peaceful inside.

All these are skilled in the parts and consumed, and washed away.
All the Skillful Rots and scoundrels, and washed and upset.

the wisdom there is from being made by oneself, is what is called.
the wisdom there is from being born, is what is meant.

Or alternatively, wrong view, and washed away.
Or they say that right view and wrong thought, being washed away.

wrong thought and wrong speech, which is consumed, and washed away.
right thought, wrong thought, wrong speech, and the scoundrels functioned.

right speech ...
For one of right speech, wrong speech is worn away. ...

wrong action and wrong action ...
For one of right action, wrong action and wrong action is worn away. ...

right livelihood and wrong effort. ...
For one of right livelihood, wrong livelihood is worn away. ...

right effort ...

right mindfulness ...
right mindfulness and wrong mindfulness ...

right immersion and wrong immersion is worn away. ...
right immersion and wrong immersion. ...

For one of right knowledge, wrong knowledge is worn away. ...

Right freedom, wrong freedom, and washed away,
Right freedom and wrong freedom, but washed away.

Or again ...
Or they all have the noble eightfold path. ...

‘All of those who have bad conduct,
all of them have badly done. ...

all of them ...
all the stars ...

all of them ...
all passions ...

all of them ...
all of them are peaceful inside.

All these are skilled in the parts and consumed, and washed away.
All the Skillful Rots and scoundrels, and washed and upset.

Someone with these things has become frightened, endowed with Upasena.
Someone who has these things has fallen upon themselves, was reborn in a place wherever they were reborn.

So a Worthy One,
Therefore a Worthy One,

Because of the scoundrels of ascetic practices, scoundrels, defilements, and ascetic practices.
Soon afterwards he was ascetic because he shameless scoundrels, currents, ascetic practices, and defilements.

upside down,
upset,

For there is no anger in regard to this when seen, heard, and thought.
For there is no prison that is, namely, the thought with regards,

They don’t identify with the seen, they don’t identify in what is seen, they don’t identify with what is seen, and they don’t identify with what is seen.
But they don’t identify with what is seen, they don’t identify in what is seen, they don’t identify regarding what is seen, they don’t identify as what is seen;

They don’t identify with the heard ...

They don’t identify with what is thought, they don’t identify regarding what is thought, and they don’t identify as what is thought.
They don’t identify with the thought ...

They don’t identify with the known ...

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, ‘I am’, ‘I am this’, ‘I will be non-percipient’, ‘I will not be’, ‘I will have form’, ‘I will be formless’, ‘I will be percipient’, ‘I will be non-percipient’, ‘I will be neither percipient nor non-percipient.
“Mendicants, ‘I am’, ‘I am what is not’, ‘I am this’, ‘I will be’, ‘I will not be’, ‘I will have form’, ‘I will be formless’, ‘I will be percipient’, ‘I will be non-percipient’, ‘I will be neither percipient nor non-percipient.

Conceit is a disease, a boil, a dart.
Conceit is a disease, a boil, a dart. The dart with poison, the dart.

So mendicants, you should train yourselves like this: ‘We will live with a heart free of oppression.’”
So mendicants, you should train yourselves like this: ‘We will live with a heart free of vanity.’”

For there is no anger in whom do not identify with both seen or heard.
There is no oppressed because of what is seen that is,

They don’t want to be purified.
He doesn’t think of purity,

Because of maintaining purity of mindfulness and situational awareness, they don’t consent to the noble eightfold path, except for exertion and pure spiritual life.
Entering with unpurified purity or path to purity of mindfulness, except for the sake of the noble eightfold path, he doesn’t go anywhere else than the pure spiritual path. He doesn’t consent to the noble eightfold path. He doesn’t consent to the noble eightfold path.

they do not want to be purity with purity.
is seeking purity by means of purity.

for one isn’t desire to find it.
There is no desire for pleasure,

All witnesses, ordinary people who indulge in it, attacked the seventh, and discipline.
All the foolish ordinary persons, having made the throne of the seventh announcements, in the seventh winner of the seventh.

you neither love nor delight in kings.
he neither loves nor delights,

Because they’re free of greed, hate, and delusion with the end of greed, hate, and delusion.

Because of this, they relish no rebirth ...
Because of this he relishes rebirth ...

for he isn’t desire today,
There is no desire for pleasure,

The Buddha replied,

For there is no because of that.
For a beget do not identify with that,

that is to say: regardless of whether or not,
that is to say: be seen or heard;

they do not want to be purity with purity.
is seeking purity by means of purity.

they aren’t desire to find no delight.”
There is no desire for pleasure, not disagreeable.”

The sixth sub-chapter on old age
The sixth

