Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

10. Purābhedasuttaniddesa

Breaches
Both breaking up of the conclusion:

How did you see the ethical person?
How did you see ethical conduct?

you’re said to be at peace.
you’re said to be impediment.

to Gotama it,
is it possible to Gotama for me,

asked the supreme person.

How does one become ethical?
How does someone sit down?

What kind of vision is stabilized? What is the counterpart of vision?
What does he have to be seen that, how many does he have torment them?

How do you see the sitting mat?
what do you see?

What is virtue that does it possess?
How does he have ethical conduct that is stabilized by ethics, familiar, and what is its particular?

How did you see the ethical person?
How did you see ethical conduct?

They’re called ‘a peaceful one’. They’re hostile’, they’re called absentminded, hostile, and venerated. They’re said to be extinguished,
He is said to be quelled, calmed, extinguished, cooled, experiencing bliss, having become quenched.

How do you ask when ethical conduct is granted, questioning, and the higher ethics?
And how does someone ask about the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom?

How do you define it?

Gotama is able to say:
is it that I worshipped Master Gotama.

That’s what I ask, in whatever you ask, whatever you ask,
I ask you about what I ask, since I ask, what I have come to.

Gotama is free from clan, he is free from the Buddha.
Gotamī is free from Gotama by his Buddha, and has gone forth from the Blessed One.

One should explain, teaches, assert, establish, clarify, analyze, and reveal it.
One explains, teaches, asserts, establishes, clarifies, analyzes, and reveals the inferior.

to Gotama it,
is it possible to Gotama for me,

they questioned the supreme person.
questioned the supreme.

asked, who was questioned by questions, and invited you requested by questions.
asked, who was asked by questions, in answering, and in fact,

They danced the most excellent, best, which was the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the world:
They don’t enter the best, the best, the highest, the best, and the supreme, regardless of whether they actually entered into the highest rain.

asked the supreme person.

That monk was stored away.
That’s why he was created,

“And how did you see ethical conduct?
“And how, how is this ethical conduct?

you’re said to be at peace.
you’re said to be impediment.

to Gotama it,
is it possible to Gotama for me,

asked the best of men.”
asking the best.

rid of craving, free of grasping,
rid of craving, free of craving,

said the Buddha,

relics of the past.
revolved by the mind;

is immeasurable to the inside,
he is surely immeasurable

and nothing before.
and nothing in them.

rid of craving, free of craving,

When his body breaks up, after death, he’s rid of greed, desire for the cutting off of craving, and craving for continued existence. He has cut off craving, attachment to life, and craving for sensual pleasures.
When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in the company of the faculties of craving, the cutting off of craving, the weavers of sensual desire, the attachment to life, and the cutting off of craving. They’re free from craving, grasping, and mental fixation.

from criticism to criticism.
like the Blessed One’s criticism.

But even more lustful, Blessed One,
But the Buddha has got over

said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

and the Fortunate One,
Which is cracking.

The Buddha said,

said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

the Fortunate One, Bhaggava, the Fortunate One,
Analyzing of the teaching, he entered into the Fortunate One.

For the Fortunate One is not worthy of
He teaches the future,

One developed in physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.
One who has developed their physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.

The Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.
And the Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

The Buddha receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
The Buddha received robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

And he discarded of the meaning, the teaching, the Saṅgha, and the ethics, the mind, and wisdom.
And for the sake of the teaching, or for the benefit of the higher mind, the Blessed One in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

Whether four absorptions, the Buddha has attained the four absorptions, the immeasurable attainments,
The Buddha has only reached the four absorptions, the Blessed One who has reached the final stage of life;

The Buddha taught him stages of the eight liberations.
The Buddha has allowed the eight liberations, the eight liberations, the winds, and the progress of the sense fields.

The Buddha has ten enlightenments of wisdom, ten kinds of foulness, mindfulness of breathing, and immersion due to mindfulness of breathing.
The Buddha has ten similes of wisdom, ten kinds of foulness, mindfulness of breathing, and attainment of immersion due to mindfulness of breathing.

The Buddha has the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
The Buddha has instructed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the four discovers, the Buddhas of the six direct knowledges, the Blessed Ones have attained (supernatural) vision,
The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the analytical knowledges, the four kinds of direct knowledge.

That Buddha wasn’t done by his mother, father, brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by ascetics and brahmins, or by the deities.
‘The Buddha has done a name, a mother, a father, a brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by the deities, or by ascetics and brahmins.

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of knowledge, and that is, the Buddhas to say, and final knowledge of all.
Buddhas, the liberations, and the opposites of all kinds, and the knowledge of truth of the Buddhas is the truth of opposite sex.

rid of craving, free of grasping,
rid of craving, Blessed One!

in the past, future, and present is called ‘perfection’.
regarding the past, future, and present.

In the past, future, and present, they’ve given up the views, and have given up the views.
In the past, future, and present, there are craving for views that have been given up and given up.

thus too you honored in the past.
both ways:

Or I had such form in the past.

“I had such feeling ...

“Surely the snake.” ...
That’s how she became someone else. ...

Choices ...
‘I used to be a lamp’ ...

I had such consciousness and such Nanda.”
That’s how I ever delighted in the past.”

thus too you honored in the past.
both ways:

“So, Visionary in the past, future, and present
“So I had in the past:

So you don’t take pleasure in that, and that’s when you no longer run back to that.
So there is no desire and greed for form, consciousness doesn’t take pleasure in that, and that’s when you no longer run back to the that.

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

thus too you honored in the past.
both ways:

“In the past I had such ears ...
“In the past I had such ears and such names

Consciousness gets tied up there with the nose and the tongue.
such a sound,

Consciousness gets tied up there with the ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
Consciousness doesn’t get tied up there with the ear ... nose ... tongue ... body.

such a taste, thinking, “I had such a body.”
such a taste,

such a touches and thoughts.
Consciousness gets tied up there with desire and lust, thinking: “In the past I had such touches.”

So they don’t take pleasure in that, and that’s when you no longer run back to the beginning.
So they don’t take pleasure in that, and that’s when you no longer run back to that, and that’s when you no longer take pleasure in that,

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

thus too you honored in the past.
both ways:

they didn’t become laugh with females while still engage in malicious talebearing. They don’t enjoy it with that.
they didn’t get laughed, chatted, or bitter, and they enjoy it.

thus too you honored in the past.
both ways:

is immeasurable to the inside,
he is immeasurable to the inside,

at the present is what is meant.
tied up in the present is said to be foremost.

In the present, you’ve given up craving regarding future.
In the present, you should give up craving for views.

Craving is it better than the extreme views that fall apart from the ending of craving, is it better left the disturbance of one thing—to say, ‘be it’s better to be better than the immeasurable or not?’
Craving is it better for a person to give up and considerate to be better than expanded if they were to be better left undesirable or fine ...

When you’ve given up this,
When they’ve given up all conditions,

Having given up the process of going, is it that they won’t be reborn in hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm or the human realm, or the ghost realm?”
and he perceives it as such, would they be reborn in hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm?”

He has no cause or condition for which there is no reason,
But there is no cause or reason for this reason,

is immeasurable to the inside,
he is surely immeasurable

and nothing beyond.
no shelter in front of them.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

before you finish two on water,
before she;

Craving, Delighting, and Pathful.
Craving is the essence of craving and view.

This is the aim of craving. ...
This is the essential ...

this is aiming at view.
this view is aiming at giving.

The view of craving is given up in them,
The view of craving is protected by that.

Craving for giving up craving and views, and craving for views, not for views or repulsion, or craving for views, and craving for views, or craving for views, or craving for views, don’t want to be seen.
Craving is aiming at the root of views, refuted of craving, not for views, and resorts to view. There is no craving for view or refuted by craving for views. Nor do they make no effort to see this view.

And that’s how there’s no shelter for them.
That’s how there’s no shelter for them.

Or they’d delight there in the future, thinking: “May I have such form in the future,”
Or alternatively, if he does not possess it, he still possesses no delight in the future.

“... feeling ...
“Seeing this feeling ...

that wisdom ...
that wisdom,

choices ...
‘This is how a choice ...’ ...

and so there I have no faith in the future.”
When this is how consciousness is unperturbed, there is no possession of relishing.”

And that’s how there’s no shelter for them.
That’s how there’s no shelter for them.

Aware that I might think
“So it might be, setting forth in the future.

So you don’t take pleasure in form ...
So you don’t get rid of form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

And that’s how there’s no shelter for them.
That’s how there’s no shelter for them.

“May I have such ears in the future.
“In the future, may I be of the ear ...

The ear “Consciousness” would be what they have, thinking, “In the future.”
The noise would be like that.

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
such a smell, thinking, “May it be in the future!”

The heart is set on tastes, thinking that it would be,
such a taste, thinking, “May my body be like this!”

such a tangibles, thinking: “May my mind be unshakable!”
such a tangibles, thinking “May my mind be in the future, may my mind be future!”

So you don’t get angry and upset, and don’t take pleasure in that, when you no longer relish our mind is not provided with sorrow.
So you don’t get rid of reinforced mind, and don’t take pleasure in that, when your mind isn’t given up.

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

And that’s how there’s no shelter for them.
That’s how there’s no shelter for them.

Or alternatively, “I will not worry about prevent the spiritual life, or the god’s heart, regardless of whether or not.”
Or alternatively, thinking: “By this precept or observance or mortification or spiritual life I shall for the gods of streaming radiance, if I don’t encounter the mind in that case.”

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

And that’s how there’s no shelter for them.
That’s how there’s no shelter for them.

The Buddha replied,

“A hero, when his body breaks up,

said the Buddha,

relics of the past.
revolved by the mind;

is immeasurable to the inside,
he is surely immeasurable

and in front of him.
and nothing in them.”

free of anger, unattached,
free of anger and deceit,

attractive, stubborn, and demolished.
free of obstructions, clothings,

thoughtful in counsel, and stable,

the sage in speech,
they’re the sage headed by the teaching,

Not free of anger, quenched:
Not having free of anger.

You don’t lose what you’ve said.
It is non-doing: what is said.

However, anger should be told to say.
However, anger can be spoken to be spoken to.

Dung One in ten ways:
One kind of anger in ten ways:

“They did wrong to me, but anger and deteriorates me.”
“They do wrong to me, but that anger does not arise.”

“They are doing wrong,”
“They are doing wrong to me,” and they grow lazy.

“They will do wrong to me”,
“They will do wrong to me,” he will know.

“They did wrong by someone I love ...

‘They are doing wrong by someone I love ...’ ...

‘They will do wrong by someone I love’ ...
‘They will harm someone I love anger.’”

‘They helped someone I dislike ...’ ...
“They helped someone I dislike ...’ ...

‘They are helping someone I dislike ...’ ...

Thinking the meaning will come to me.”
That would be the topic for the goal.”

Or alternatively, it is born in water.
Or alternatively, can carry off irritability,

Such Citta is angry and upset.
Such is the kind of warding off such an opportunity to get rid of resentment, ill will, irritability, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, deceit, bad desires, and ill will.

This is called anger.

However, anger should be understood as excessive requisites.
but rather, it should be understood that in excessiveness of anger;

So when another person dies in checking the mind, they’re not reviled by a counsel.
Some time although the mind is not ready, and not be responsible, then the family traditions are not lost.

But if someone is reborn in a low family—a family of spending on top of others, they’re not a killer.
But if they do not die in a low family—a family of spending, responsible, and one is reborn in a place for men.

And if you try to possibly, you’re blucky, harsh, and non-humanship.
And if you die, irritable, bandits, and flattery, you’re not a harsh word.

But when someone dies harshly, they’re not aroused by harsh speech. They don’t remember the world as follows:
Some time irritable, overcome and overwhelmed by anger, one is permanent, everlasting, eternal, and imperishable.

But whenever they die in the direction, they’re irritable and bad-tempered in the realm of the park.
Some time irritable person, whenever they die in the realm of rod, they don’t think of a stick.

Some time irritable, stuffed by sticks, rods, and doesn’t take any stick.
Some time irritable, and staff don’t shake off the staff, the rod on of sticks, so long as they don’t get the bitter.

Some time irritable, stuffed with a stick, rod on the staff, and they don’t have any guilty.
Some time irritable, they’re not busy with sticks, staff, and they don’t have the drains.

There is another way that anger doesn’t happen.
Some time irritable, and not even the drop of punishment there’s no needle to be cut off.

But when he dies in anger, he has cut off his joined palms and is not like a palm tree with joined palms.
So when they die, they’re not ready to weary, and don’t raise their joined palms.

But if there is another time, their anger rises uplifted with joined palms towards.
But when he is angry and upset with his hands, he is not able to win over his limbs, and not infantry.

But when someone dies in anger and has not got all their life, then they’re responsible.
But if the person is angry and blessed, and they’re not able to live on for a long time.

But when someone dies in time, they’re not greedy or impatient, and so on.
But when life is bored, he has been reborn in a good place, not a termite-mound or all ling.

When a person, having removed anger by another, they’ve acquired anger and reached the highest perfection.
When a person is irritable, overcome by anger, and overwhelmed by anger, they will reach the ultimate end of greatness.

When a person has abandoned anger, cut off the root, made like a palm stump, thread, and destroyer of knowledge, they are called ‘one who has overcome knowledge’.
and when they’ve abandoned anger, cut off the bonds, undeveloped aggregates, falling down the top of their knowledge.

When anger has been given up, anger arises and hostility.
When they’ve given up anger, enmity, and ill will, and hostility because they haven’t given up anger, they should be irritable, intimidate,

free of anger,
free of anger and hostility,

It’s someone who isn’t frightened, if they expect a limited robe.
It may be that someone isn’t frightened, smeared with limited heads, settles a limited period.

I don’t get a robe, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t get a robe-cloth with all these things. I don’t want to have a comfortable abusing. I don’t get robes, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. And I’m not alert.
I don’t get a robe

It’s when a mendicant doesn’t overpower their hearts,
It’s when a mendicant doesn’t become alive.

He doesn’t guarantee a limited period, nor does he frighten the time.
But he doesn’t associate with them, nor does he fear the frightening of them.

I don’t get a robe, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t get a famous reputation
I don’t get a robe

free of anger, unattached,
free of anger and deceit,

sheeps her.
if she makes no effort;

It may be that someone understands what is bitter, wherever they’ve done.
It may be that someone is disturbed, but wherever they’ve done what has been done.

I am accomplished in ethics, do I have become accomplished in ethical conduct, or supporters.
I am accomplished in ethics, immersion, or wisdom.

Because of his birth, family, ought to be male, or a profession, of a legal procedure consisting of one motion and one announcement, or by one of the three knowledges.
rebirth or by his profession; or by his neighboring, his wealth, or by one of the head, by way of body and speech, or by position of Master Gotama, that profession or by one of the sense fields.

from an eminent family—a family of aristocrats, famous, a well-known family, a well-known family, famous, with a wealthy family—and went forth.
from an eminent family—a family of families, a well-known family, a family of loss, wealth, or a family—they are well-known, famous, with went forth from a family.

I receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick, or he’s a lot of alms-food. And he lives in the wilderness, ate only alms-food, wore rag robes, and owners of the day.
I receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t stay in the wilderness, ate only alms-food, wore rag robes, or sheeps. I am one who lives in the wilderness, eats only alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick.

... “I obtain ...

the dimension of infinite consciousness ...

the dimension of nothingness ...

Wherein is the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception? And where does it function?
Wherein is the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception: where does he have gain?

Don’t get rid of injure, wherever they don’t escape, liberated, and free of limits.
And where does not neglect from?

.
the...

You’re imprisoned.
if she makes any effort to have it unhindered;

Being afraid of wrongdoing, they do not ejection for not recognizing an offense. They are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the carpents; and they’re afraid of wrongdoing, the Vajjians have been being afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the wrongdoing.
Being afraid of wrongdoing, they do not use stabilize their hands and feet, and are afraid of wrongdoing, they dreadfully than a hundred dollars.

When talking about such anxiety, he discontent with the mind,
Nevertheless, his remorse is anxious, and his mind is distracted.

This is called being anxious.
This is called remorse.

However, anxious, and remorseful that arises at the time of excessiveness and remorseful, which has been done and regret.
However, when he is remorseful, his mind becomes anxious and remorseful because it was not discussed because it was discussed.

And how does one who is anxious and remorseful give rise to anxiety?
And how is remorseful and mental distraction due to the mind?

“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind” they feel remorse.
“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind, and remorse because of this remorse and regret.”

“I did bad things by way of body, speech, and mind ...
“I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind ...

I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.”

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

that I had killed living creatures, stealing, and sexual misconduct;
“Suching living creatures aren’t killing living creatures, stealing, and sexual misconduct.”

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

“I’ven stealing.”
“I haven’t given up stealing.”

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

saying that he had sexual misconduct,
“Anyone who commits sexual misconduct has sexual misconduct,”

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

saying that he had not lied. ...
saying that he has not lied. ...

‘I’ve heard divisive speech.’ ...
... ‘I have refraining from divisive speech.’ ...

‘I’ve made uproar speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical.’ ...
saying that he hasn’t harsh speech ...

saying that he talks nonsense ...
... “I talking nonsense,” ...

saying that I’ve given up covetousness ...
... “I’ve given up covetousness ...

ill will ...

“I’ve realized right view.”
he too had wrong view.

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

And when it has been done and is anxious, the mind becomes anxious because of distraction.
And when it has been done and anxiety, the mind becomes anxious because of that remorse and regret.

Not fulfilling the precepts,
“I haven’t fulfilled ethics,”

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

“I’m practicing wrong.”
“I am a faculties of Venerables.”

saying that he has not insane,
“I have insane.” ...

“They are committed to wakefulness.”
one who is committed to wakefulness ...

“No mindfulness and situational awareness” ...
“I have mindfulness and situational awareness.” ...

... “I have developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.” ...
... “I’ve developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.” ...

... “I attained the four right efforts ...
... “I attained the four right efforts.” ...

... “I have developed the four bases of psychic power” ...
... “I’ve developed the four bases of psychic power ...” ...

... “I attained the five spiritual faculties,” ...
the five faculties ...

... “I’m powerful,” ...
the five powers ...

... “I’ve developed the seven awakening factors.” ...

“I’ve developed the noble eightfold path ...”
“I’ve developed the noble eightfold path.” ...

saying that I haven’t completely understood suffering,
... “I haven’t completely understood suffering” ...

“I haven’t given up the origin of suffering” ...

... “I’ve developed the noble eightfold path.” ...

When I had no lust,
When I had no use,

anxious, and remorseful,
Being anxious, a mind-made body,

They’re called ‘down’.
They’ve cut off discarded, eliminated, and obliterated them—are said to be the foremost of waves, removed, eliminates, and obliterated.

attractive, stubborn, and demolished.
free of obstructions, clothings,

thoughtful in counsel, and stable,

(her) wisdom is what is meant.
and mind is what is meant.

Understanding as understanding of principles, right view, and right thought.
wisdom ...

to beginning a good speaker, and making much of it, he speaks a lot that is helpful for many people.
and, after speaking a time for what is proportion, making much of a lot, he spoke many people spoke about for many reasons,

They don’t speak indecently, with bad speech, and mind.
They don’t speak badly,

One who speaks falsely,
hymns, or counsel,

but if they are not stable
But if they are steady and stable,

What is agitation?
Herein, what is restlessness?

Anything that’s agitated, sluggishness, and mental mind,

This is called restlessness.

Agitation, when has been given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, and accumulated knowledge, they say,
You have given up the dart of restlessness, remorse, accumulating, decrease, breaking up and destruction of the bowls, and then examined their in the air.

thoughtful in counsel, and stable,

that sage headed for speech.
then the sage who speaks falsely,

It’s when a mendicant gives up lying. They speak the truth and stick to the truth. They’re honest and trustworthy, and don’t trick the world with their words.

They give up divisive speech.

They don’t repeat in one place what they heard in another so as to divide people against each other.

He doesn’t repeat in one place what he heard in another so as to divide people against each other. Instead, he reconciles those who are divided, supporting unity, delighting in harmony, loving harmony, speaking words that promote harmony.

They give up harsh speech.

They speak in a way that’s mellow, pleasing to the ear, lovely, going to the heart, polite, likable and agreeable to the people.

They give up talking nonsense.

Their words are timely, true, and meaningful, in line with the teaching and training. They say things at the right time which are valuable, reasonable, succinct, and beneficial.

They have four kinds of good conduct in speech, or when they speak in a deft, untirred, liberating, praise, discussing the unattached, seeing the drawbacks, and understanding the escape.
They have four kinds of good conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and develop the four kinds of speaking. They live untirred, liberating, praised by sensible people. They live with a heart free of limits.

Ten bases for talk, that is,
Ten grounds for talk.

talk about fewness of wishes, contentment, talk about seclusion,
talk about fewness of wishes, contentment, talk about seclusion, talk about seclusion,

talk on generosity ...
talk on generosity,

talk about energy ...

talk on generosity, talk on morality, ...
talk on generosity, talk on morality,

talk on immersion,

talk on wisdom,
talk on generosity, talk on morality,

talk about freedom,
talk on freedom,

talk about liberation ...
talk on freedom,

talk about mindfulness,

talk about the right effort ...
talk on right effort ...

talk about psychic power ...

talk about the faculty ...
talk on generosity,

talk about strength ...

talk about awakening ...
talk on awakening,

talk about paths,
of a path,

fruit of fruit ...
...

talk about extinguishment.

he guards the intelligent, guarded, protected, and controlled.
well-proclaimed, guarded, protected, and guarded,

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

knowledge of delusion is what is meant.
knowledge is what is meant.

understanding ...
People understand wisdom ...

The sage identifies passing away—
The sage who clings to inclusive,

the sage in speech,
they’re the sage headed by the teaching,

The Buddha replied,

Free, without anger,
Free of anger, free of despair,

attractive, stubborn, and demolished.
free of obstructions, clothings,

thoughtful in counsel, and stable,

they’re a sage speaker.”
then you’re the sage who speaks by speech.”

free of hope and future.
free of hope, delight in future.

In the past, future, and present
doesn’t worry about the past,

When you’re devoted to seclusion
When you’re released from seclusion,

and no attachment in regard to what is seen.
and no accumulations are not seen.

Because of the future:
relinquished:

this is called craving.
Craving is what is called.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Because of the renown there is the craving that they have given up, cut off craving, untied the vicinity of fear and dread, and infatuated knowledge.
He has cut off craving and has been given up, cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

even so too long as in the future.
he thus enthusibly destiny in the future.

Or they’d delight there in the future, thinking: “May I have such form in the future,”
Or alternatively, if he does not possess it, he still possesses no delight in the future.

“... feeling ...
“Seeing this feeling ...

that wisdom ...
that wisdom,

choices ...
‘This is how a choice ...’ ...

and so there I have no faith in the future.”
When this is how consciousness is unperturbed, there is no possession of relishing.”

even so too long as in the future.
he thus enthusibly destiny in the future.

Aware that I might think
“So it might be, setting forth in the future.

So you don’t take pleasure in form ...
So you don’t get rid of form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

even so too long as in the future.
he thus enthusibly destiny in the future.

“May I have such ears in the future.
“In the future, may I be of the ear ...

So much sounds ...
Such is sound ...

“May my mind exists in the future.
“May my mind be in the future!

So you don’t get angry and upset, and don’t take pleasure in that, when you no longer relish our mind is not provided with sorrow.
So you don’t get rid of reinforced mind, and don’t take pleasure in that, when your mind isn’t given up.

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

even so too long as in the future.
he thus enthusibly destiny in the future.

Or alternatively, “When I’m ethical or spiritual life I’ll shake or tremble or get lose their mind, let alone those that are not gained.”
Or alternatively, thinking: “By this precept or observance or mortification or spiritual life I shall for the gods of streaming radiance, if I don’t encounter the mind in that case.”

Surrounded by nature,
“Don’t encounter it,

even so too long as in the future.
he thus enthusibly destiny in the future.

you don’t disgrace the past,
you don’tv with the past,

Is discarded or cleansed. I don’t remember my story or my eyes as far as I like.
Isn’t allowed no grounds for making clothes.

saying that the householder ...
“... the ear ...

nose ...
the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
the tongue ...

My body is tranquil ...

sights ...

My sounds ...
My ears ...

smells ...
My smells,

...
a taste ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

a family from me. ...
a family ...

sex with a group ...

I’ve given up my dwelling;
I’ve given up illness ...

... “I’ve obtain ...
... “I’ve receivers ...

Anyone who is my son ...
Anyone who is possessed by Yasa ...

my praise ...
my confidence remains ...

My happiness is bliss ...

... “I’ve given up my robe ...
... “I’ve given up my robe ...’ ...

alms-food ...
my alms-food ...

... “I’ve attained the dwelling,” ...
my dwelling ...

...
I’m sick;

my mother ...

Father ...
a father ...

a brother ...
‘My brother ...

sister ...

my son ...

daughter ...

I’ve friends ...
my friends ...

ministers ...

her relatives ...

She has bloodted and decorated. She doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
She’s decayed and perished, and my lament doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

In the past, future, and present
doesn’t worry about the past,

Secluded of seclusion,
Secluded, he sees that it is sense;

contact through the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind.
Contact through the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind.

Mendicants, such contacts impact, touching, and contact.
The intentions regarding contact.

This is called contact.

Secluded of seclusion,
Secluded, he sees that it is sense;

They see eye contact as permanent or impermanent.
They see contact as permanent or impermanent.

they see the ear contact ...

nose contact ...

tongue contact ...

they see body contact with contact ...
body contact ...

mind contact ...

they see the absence of the participation in overseer.
they see the dispensation in the abundance of prediction ...

someone sees the components in motion,
he sees the consent of the origin of the merchant’s wife.

happiness ...
contact ...

contact ...

contact ...

skillful contact ...
If, monastics, is intended for the wholesome contact ...

unskillful contact ...

undetermined contact ...
An incompetent contact ...

sensual pleasures,

sensual pleasures,
having contact ...

the formless realm ...
having contact ...

they see contact as permanent or impermanent.
they see a world—whether it can be destroyed by one, two, or three contacts—corruptions in self-control or motion.

Then contacts of the past, future, and present contacts.
Then regarding the past, future, and present.

Or alternatively, they see that such contact are noble, transcendent, stinginess, and deceitfulness. Then instead of obstinacy, deceit, bad desires, and ill will by the noble ones:
Or alternatively, there are those noble ones who are pollutant-free irritable and bad-tempered by Māra and Brahmā, by obstinacying conceit, contempt, all living creatures, each other with the contempt, irritable, deceit, obstinate, fever, and deceit, flattering.

When you’re devoted to seclusion
When you’re released from seclusion,

doesn’t led on by what is seen,
and doesn’t led on.

And while those sixty-two misconceptions have been given up, cut off, and engaged in making pours of the offerings.
But when he has given up these sixty-two grounds, he comprehends the opposite sex, which were spent in the parasol and was given up and over to him.

They don’t move what they have. They’re not swept away.
They don’t give rise to views, nor do they get rid of it.

nor does that view come back to that view,
nor does he believe in a view, nor does he return to it.

and no attachment in regard to what is seen.
and no accumulations are not seen.

The Buddha replied,

“In the future, may I not be satisfied
“In the future, future lives,

In the past, future, and present
doesn’t worry about the past,

When you’re devoted to seclusion
When you’re released from seclusion,

and not undergoing suffering.”
and not led on.”

Can heedless, without idle,
if you don’t get angry,

nonsensical,
They’re not stingy,

not understanding, not disgusted,
unburdensome, not disgusting,

We should be restrained in the park, but not to be restrained;
Once they’re played, but don’t be negligent.

Withdrawn, free of anger,
Withdrawn in lucky,

When you’ve given up greed, hate, and delusion have given up.
When they’ve given up greed they’re given up greed, hate, and delusion. They’re irritable, and hostile.

hostility ...

Makkhali ...

contempt ...

stinginess ...

With the giving up of all unskillful intentions, they’ve given up.
given up all unskillful intentions,

for this is said by the Buddha,

“And how is a mendicant withdrawn?

It’s when a mendicant has given up the conceit ‘I am’, cut it off at the root, made it like a palm stump, obliterated it, so it’s unable to arise in the future.

That’s how a mendicant is withdrawn.”

withdrawn from the root,
withdrawn from the root of an outcaste,

Three poisons:
Three grounds for deceitings:

what is reckoned as a plantain is reckoned by what is reckoned as a corpse, dropped in opposite, and what is called indirect talk,
the basis of psychic power that is indirect talk, in opposing, and indirect talk, indirectly based on the basis of psychic power, and the deportment is indirect talk,

What is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites?

It’s when a mendicant invites robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
It’s when a householder invites him to accept robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

Because of wicked desires, they resign a robe, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And they resign a dwelling place with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
As a result of bad desires, he resigns the robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And he rejects it and returns a lesser life.

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“What’s an ascetic of robe for an ascetic?
“What’s the point of this robe-cloth?

This ascetic or brahmin should make an effort to get these things.
using this heartwood, a corrupt magician, or a dog’s body, ruses, and wears their outer robe and wear it.

What’s an ascetic of almsfood?
what’s an ascetic to do with expensive alms-food?

will be bitter, making a living for the ascetic,
this is a vowel, a lump of meat, a buffalo, poison,

What’s an ascetic, with expensive dwellings,
what’s an ascetic’s dwelling?

This ascetic or brahmin might have the same tree as multiplicator, or a messenger.
This ascetic or brahmin ...

What’s an ascetic of medicines?
What’s the point of requisites for the sick?

this ascetic mustard seeds that are carrying away, burning, boiled rice, or stumps.”
this is a vow’s belt, pillow, and creepers.”

Accordingly he wears a coarse robe, eats coarse alms-food, wears rag robes, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
Accordingly he wears a coarse robe, eats coarse alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

householders know
The brahmins and householders know

“This ascetic is content, with few wishes, contentment, secluded, energetic, and mindful, a preacher of asceticism inviting robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”
“This ascetic is content, secluded, he invites them to admire them with few robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And he invites them to accept robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“When three things are present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit.

When faith is present,
When faith is present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit.

‘You have faith, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom. You’re arguing, and I receive the recipients.
‘You have faith, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom.

If I don’t receive it, you’ll have a merit.
If I don’t receive it, you’ll keep it away.

But I don’t want myself.
And I don’t need any harm for me.

Rather will I accept out of compassion for you.’”
Rather, I accept out of compassion for you.’”

At that time he receives many robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
a little robe that he receives much almsfood, receives many almsfood, and accepts many almsfood.

Such grimacing, schemery, bitter, and deceitful.
Such grimacing, schemery, and endeavour.

This is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites.

What is the ground of deportment?
What is the ground for deportment?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” composes his way of walking, composes his way of lying down; he walks studiedly, stands studiedly, sits studiedly, lies down stabilizedly, and concentrates as though concentrated.
It’s when someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” while walking, standing, sitting, sleeping, and embarrasing. He stands stabilized like an elephant, horse, and he stands studiedly.

Such kind of grimacing, scheming, schemery, deceptive, consume, and deceptive,
Such particular postures are the bent on the site, consume, schemedness, and deceit,

This is the ground for example, based on the path,
This is the ground for deportment.

What is being indirect?
What is talking about in accordance with what is talking about in accordance with the intention?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking: “Take me when I’ve done away with the teaching!”
Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Those people will admire me in the noble state.”

if he says, “He who wears such a robe,”
“He who wears such a robe, he uses it,”

‘This bowl is used.’ ...
that a bowl is used for a bowl,

gracefully ...
a red bucket,

but they remember the teaching ...
remembering the teachings,

a gathering of people ...
they keep a gathering of monks ...

a necklace,

sandals,

a belt with blade ...
a belt,

metal as a illustrious ascetic, then indeed.”
who wears a valuable ascetic, speaks a large very illustrious,”

if he says, “He’s a preceptor,”
“He says that such a preceptor.”

“Such is a teacher ...
“The teacher’s feed. ...

so-and-so’s co-student ...
that kind of co-student is sort of person ...

your co-pupil ...

friends ...

who take pleasure in him ...
taken assemblies ...

... etc.
...”

He says a great ascetic!”
if he says, “He’s a large,”

if he says, “He who stays in such a dwelling,”
if he says, “He who lives in such a dwelling, he is a Great ascetic,”

if someone lives in such a house ...
the home of the one who lives in the household life,

stayed in the longhouse together,
stayed in the longhousehold ...

I’m living at home with them ...
‘I’m staying in a magician’ ...

giving away ...
your secret oppressed by the nose ...

if he stays at the wrong time;
if she stays at the wrong time;

if he stays in the hut has a hut;
if the upper story is dwelling;

dwellings in a bungalow ...
a bungalow, a roof-peak,

If he stays right there, but he is unsure of it ...
the embarrassed ...

by Māra ...
your matted like a magic tried ...

dwellings ...
you stay with the hunter.

the assembly hall together with the assembly hall.
the assembly hall.

who stays in the forest,
who stays under a roof-cover,

if he touches the tree too far, he says, “I’m a huge ascetic”;
he touches the tree too far, he says this.”

Or alternatively, all-gushing, all-grimacing, with an expression of a hide his face, he uttered such a deep, immeasurable abiding with such an attainment ascending glory, and so on.
Then he said to Kokālika, “Which is an Anguage speaker,ll-food-recelling, with a deep observed like a charming scraper in the opening of the wide opening of the door.”

Such grimacing, schemery, bitter, and deceitful.
Such grimacing, schemery, and endeavour.

this is called indirect talk (to the subject);
This is the basis for happiness.

He who has given up three ways, who has cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
One who has given up these three things, one who has cut off the level of the string, who has cut off the knowledge of the ground, and who is unshakable, who is unformed in the world, is said to be the best of them.

Can heedless, without idle,
if you don’t get angry,

they’re not stingy.
They’re not stingy:

the craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

being abandoned by craving, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
One who has given up craving and cut off craving, who has cut off the hindrances, who is unburned (into the wombs), and who has cut off the inheritance, and is called a “form”.

He doesn’t like sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
They don’t smell an odor with their nose ...

touches ...

praise ...

a robe ...

almsfood ...
alms-food ...

... furniture ...
furniture ...

...
who’s sick,

sensuality ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

the formless realm ...

continued existence ...
sensual pleasures, craving to continue existence, and craving to end existence.

continued existence ...

They truly understand form ...
form ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

continued existence ...

...
maintaining ...

... the four lower realms,” ...
four blessings ...

...
five lower fetters,

in the future ...
future ...

present ...

for they don’t want to discard what is seen, they don’t wish to accept. They don’t consent to food given them, or they don’t wish to give them.
if he does not wish to be seen or heard in the midst of these things, he does not consent to any of them.

cut off the creeper,
even if they’re cry out,

stinginess:
Five kinds of stingy:

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such is the best stinginess, transmigration, decaying, and decaying.
Such is the boy’s fish, stingy, lovely, and carpenter’s thoughts.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Stinginess, stinginess, deceit, and dwelling.
Still, stinginess, disliked and stinginess, are stinginess with the jealousy, and stinginess.

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Someone who has given up conceit, cut off doubt, unattached, seeing the stomach digests and the pillar, is called a “gitation with sensual desire”.
who has given up transmigration, attributes, cutting off the knowledge, the inner skin, the flesh, sinews, bones, and music.

nonsensical,
They’re not stingy,

not understanding, not disgusted,
Unable to be disgusted,

disrobes:
These are the three kinds of demonstration:

if he is obstructed by practising, or mature, and ovious behavior,
he released in plastered overcomparable, pleasing in public guesthouse,

What is the meeting of is pleasing?
which is shelter in the gathering?

Here someone was seen in the Sangha, instead of discomfort, having gone to Kāsīvaka, to show the food placed in the midst of the Sangha and inspects to it in the morning and shows to someone else’s preparing a sauna, or evening and playing in it.
It’s when someone shows a bathing place where there are dangers and threats, ornaments for provisions in the midst of the Sangha and she shows them to an inhabited area, an assembly hall, a distributes, waters, and pulls in the morning time.

How will she shows practises from the Saṅgha?
he shows how to prepare a meal in the Sangha?

It’s when someone in a fracture, a while the senior mendicants stand, sit down, or lies down in front of the senior monks. They sit down on a high seat.
It may be that someone does not. He sits down on a bed or a mattress, even if he stands in front of the senior monks, he sits down, and he sits down on a high seat. He then sits down, lies down, and he sits down on a high seat, thinking,

Thus having come to Kātiyānī, (saying):
Thus having shown that a position in the Saṅgha

How will she come to Kātiyāna?
he shows how to make a courtesan from Kāsī,

It’s when someone walks up and down, while walking up and down, standing on the ground top of their walking-paths, and he walks back and forth in front of them.
It’s when someone walks up and down, stood up and lay down on a walking-path, and he walks up and down on a high seat. He walked back and forth in front of the senior monks, and he sits down on a high seat. He walks up and down, sits down, lies down, and he stands on a high seat.

After going to a courtesan and (saying): “After going to Kātikā,”
Thus she shows her in the same way.

How will she shows her food in the morning time?
“And how does she give to a meal in the morning time?

It’s when someone eats in moderation, sits down in front of the senior monks. They sit on a seat. They sarong and upper robe overly on the seats. They sit down, lie down, and they sit down on the seats.
It’s when someone eats in food, drink, clothes, and isn’t cooking the seats, sits down, lies down, circum, and lays down on a seat. He then sits down, lies down on a bed, and he sits down on a seat, gets up and stands in front of the senior monks.

Thus in this way to show a meal to Kāsī is shown in the morning.
Thus in this way she shows them a meal at the wrong time.

they will show a sauna shed.
he shows how to build a sauna in the city.

It’s when someone in a sauna by senior monks, junior mendicants, recently boards, bolts, and swords to swept away, they sit on a high seat.
It’s when someone doesn’t build a sauna on a senior monkey, who stands in frontier behind the senior monks, sits down, and he sits down on a high seat. He doesn’t walk, thinking,

In this way she shows protection in the sauna with the point.
So in the sauna shed is shown by an enclosure.

How will she shows water again and again in the water?
How do you give water cooked in the water?

It’s when someone bathshes the senior mendicants in front of them, junior mendicants in front of them, and in front of them.
It’s when someone doesn’t bathe in water: heavily in the water, lit in front of the senior monks, and in front of them.

In this way the water is shown wherever it is said.
Thus she shows water that is pouring from the water.

How will you enter an inhabited area with the body?
How is he to enter an inhabited area with the body when she is walking in inhabited area?

It’s when someone enters an inhabited area while the senior mendicants walk up, making them uniquet in front of the senior mendicants.
It’s when someone enters an inhabited area without saying, with no kind of senior monks, striking them on a front of the senior monks.

When entering an inhabited area, they will show sewings in inhabited areas.
When entering an inhabited area, he shows them in inhabited area;

How will she shows protection for the inhabited areas;
How does he show its entered an inhabited area, which is tormented in the gathering?

It’s when someone praises, saying: “Here, venerable Sir,” “Perhaps these things in inhabited areas,” “Perhaps these things, Sir.” They walked back, wrapped in inhabited areas, and sit down, lies down on it.
It’s when someone is entered inside a house, thinking “From house, sir,” and when he is told, “Venerable sir, while sitting in an inhabited area,” and when asked, “Venerable sir, he sits down, lies down, and he stands without a level of cloth, thinking, ‘There are managed, and he stands without turning back, and he stands without turning backwards.

where women, daughters of families, women, daughters of good families, and women sit down together with their heads for women. And they go to the monastery for the daughters of the young men.
where the families of women, daughters of good families, and eventually sat down with their heads. They sit with their heads at a girl of the daughters of a girl.

One who has entered an inhabited area should show one who is walking in an inhabited area and then shows
When she has entered an inhabited area,

they will show their bodies to be done.
I will give this bride (you) precept.

Which is shown?
what is to be shown by the rinsing dawn?

It may be that someone is gone to a distribution in the Sangha, saying, “Takes a group, or separately,” “Explains,” “It is said to be secured by a courte or marriage,”
It may be that someone supports a sangha or a group of a group, or an inspiring place to a charnel ground in an inhabited area of wrongdoing. He shows a distribution of water, saying,

How will she give to a sangha or to an individual?
How will he shows his words to the Sangha?

It’s when someone doesn’t have respect for the senior monks, requesting them, and they speak to the teachings. They come to stay in the midst of the Monastic Code, saying,
It may be that someone doesn’t act in the midst of the Sangha, saying, “The senior monks aren’t standing, sitting, or lying down. They come to the monastery he reciting the Monastic Code, and they recite the Monastic Code.

it is said to be rinse after going from the Community or to Pāvā.
it is said to be shown in the midst of the Sangha.

How does he show to a group and then show it?
How a group of nuns brings about what is to be done in the gathering?

It’s when someone takes pleasure in a group, standing, sitting, or lying down. They distribute the senior mendicants speak to them, saying:
It may be that someone who does not ask a responds, but he speaks to the senior monks, and he says to the monks who should be asked, “Give them a question,” and they reply,

They come to the monastery where nuns, laymen talk, and laywomen talk, standing, sitting, lying down, and rude.
if he says, “The nuns who have come to the monastery,” and he replysed, “They are laywomanshiping,”

when she came in this way it shows a group and is shown.
it shows how to pull towards a group.

How do you show entered an inhabited area and show them?
How do you show entered an inhabited area of wrongdoing couches in inhabited area?

It’s when someone enters an inhabited area say,
It’s when someone entered an inhabited area of a woman or a girl who lives in a house.

“For this here, what’s the factors of this?
“What is this?

rice porridge, and meals.
rice porridge, non-staple foods,

what will we eat? What will we eat?
what will we eat? What will I do?

what exactly is said: “Are you give to me?” or “There are such things as graceful, or droping, frightening, wailing, moaning, great moaning,
what use is there for me to give to me, or that which is the time for the clungs of vitality, or the absentment of good fortune that mortal frame, or that moans even as much as they want.

One who has entered an inhabited area and shows them
When he has entered an inhabited area, he said,

This is the fourth kind of speech.
this is the fourth kind of speech.

What is the mental development of mental practition?
What is mental action?

It’s when someone who has gone forth from an eminent family—a family of unshakable families—unsets, who are intimidated, and who have gone forth from a wealthy family—a family of great wealth.
It’s when someone who has gone forth from an eminent family, who does not for a family member of the family, who has gone forth from the lay life to homelessness, but only the wealthy family, who has gone forth from a family of wealthy family, and isn’t large wealth.

When someone with a sleeping place he doesn’t in accordance with the Monastic Law together,
they don’t instead of others ...

Dhamma ...
one who doesn’t understand the teaching ...

wilderness ...
doesn’t stay in the wilderness ...

alms-food ...

wearing rag robes ...

When you didn’t wear robes,
He doesn’t about a robe,

so-and-so protected by her fellows ...
so-and-so lives in the charnel ground,

Not a later-food-eater ...
Not a later-food-refuser ...

Not lying down ...
who never lies down ...

he doesn’t reject the basket ...
who did not sleep wherever they lay their mat ...

... obtains ...

When someone has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they burn together with someone who has attained the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.
Because of the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they don’t burn themselves with attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.

This is the undefinished practice.
This is the untouchable (merit).

They’ve given up these three things, they’re called ‘one who has cut off the cords and the knowledge of the affairs’.
One who has given up these three things, who has cut off the stream, who is unbroken, imperishable, and whatever they have not given up, they are called a ‘bound’.

learning,
Undirected in the teaching,

being disgusted, they disgusted.
while disgusting, they be disgusted.

There is a person disgusted with disgust, disgusted.
There is a person disgusted with disgusting,

And who is the person disgusted?
And who is the person who disgusts disgusting?

It’s when some person is unethical, of bad qualities, filthy, with suspicious behavior, underhand, no true ascetic or spiritual practitioner—though claiming to be one—rotten inside, corrupt, and depraved.

This person is called a disguster.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

Or they’re irritable, hostile, and hard-hearted, and display annoyance, hate, and bitterness.
They prey to anger and hostile ...

This person is called a disguster.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

Anger and hostility is irritable and hostility. They’re stingy and disturbed by jealousy. Their view is obstinate and wrong view.
And they’re irritable, hostile, and hard-hearted, and have wrong view.

This person is called a disguster.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

And who is the person disgusted?
And who is the person unconfused?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

This person is called a person without disgusting.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

Or they’re not annoyed by loving annoyance, hate, and bitterness. They don’t get annoyed, hostile, and hard-hearted, or display annoyance, hate, and bitterness.
Someone who isn’t irritable and bad-tempered. If they don’t get annoyed, hostile, and hard-hearted, or display annoyance, hate, and bitterness.

This person is called a person without disgusting.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

Someone is not treacherous and deceitful. They’re not devious or deceitful. They don’t be attached to their own views, not holding them tight, but letting them go easily.
Someone isn’t because they’re not irritable and hostile. They’re not attached to their own views, holding them tight, or refusing to let go. They don’t obstinately stick to them. And they don’t give up wrong views.

This person is called a person without disgusting.
This is called a person who is disgusting.

All the worldlings, when it comes to annihilation, an uneducated ordinary person, who has not yet made the eighth rules.
All the foolish worldlings, the magnificent ordinary person, having eight types of speak, whether the eight persons of the noble ones.

not understanding, not disgusted,
unburdensome, not disgusting,

Only then checks, they don’t Uttiya,
Once they’re not satisfied with things,

It is someone who refrains from divisive speech.
If it is invited, but there is divisive speech.

And so they divide those who are harmonious, supporting division, delighting in division, loving division, speaking words that promote division.

This is called the perception of light.
This is called the perception of the world.

However, he composes his duty on two occasions:
However, when he makes use of two reasons:

if he is one aiming at division;
if only aiming at what is dear;

How does one engage in malicious talebearing?
“And how does one engage in malicious talebearing?

“We will be dear and beloved to me. I shall be dear and appealing to you.”
“We will be dear and beloved to me. I will be dear and beloved. I will have a lie down.”

he makes one engaged in malicious talebearing towards himself.
if he makes it known to him think in this way;

he makes use of what is defects with the intention to schism?
he carries it on in regard to what is it?

“What can these two kinds of discontents would not come to be, then if these two streams were over, they wouldn’t come to you?”
“What can be done so that these two kinds of discomforts would not be done?”

if he carries on, thinking in this way;
if he carries it on in this way;

When they’ve given up something up, they don’t pay attention to them again and again, committed to the knowledge and vision of freedom, and don’t look down on others.
When this has been given up and cut off, it’s unfamiliated, not committed to the knowledge of the proper conduct. They don’t look down on it and don’t look forward to relying on ide, not to peace.

We should be restrained in the park, but not to be restrained;
Once they’re played, but don’t be negligent.

The Buddha replied,

“One who isn’t angry,
Ajitating: “One who has no anger,

nonsensical,
They’re not stingy,

not understanding, not disgusted,
unburdensome, not disgusting,

and don’t be diligent when spending.”
Should Be instructed when they come.”

Without overpower:
Not overpowering:

Nearless, they don’t be restrained;
Wealth is untouchable,

the gentle and the articulate,

don’t became faithful.
you’re not faithful,

Namely:
Endowed:

this is said to be the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
This is called the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

With annoyance is what.
the five kinds of sensual stimulation are said to be the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

Remembering that these five kinds of sensual stimulation are called “finement” .
Remembering the five kinds of sensual stimulation are called sensual stimulation; they are subtle people embarrass, tied up with the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

Of those who haven’t given up craving for sights, who have not given up craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
There are those who haven’t given up craving for sights, relishing and craving for sights. They proceed in craving for sights, but don’t occur in them.

nose ...
craving for smells,

craving for tastes ...

craving for touches ...

mind comes together with the teaching.
mind comes to craving for thoughts. And it occurs flows down rolling on the mind.

There are those who have given up the things that cut off craving and neglect, cut off craving, untied the fetters, and by rightly comprehending conceit ‘Seeing form’, ornaments, and craving for sights don’t flow’t flow.
There are those who have given up craving and cut off craving for sights, and who have gone beyond the stream of existence. They don’t see anyone in the sensual realm. They don’t look forward to enjoying craving for sights, they don’t look down on them.

mind, craving for thoughts, and doesn’t flow themselves.
mind doesn’t keep running.

Without overpower:
Not overpowering:

they don’t attain whether they’re not it’s too tall.
they don’t attain untirred.

What is conceit?
What is called ‘defilement’?

It may be that someone does not conflict with another or clan or else,
It may be that someone does not have any of these wives or bases of their birth, or does one or other of one or other of these.

Mendicants, such conceit are stainless, fickle, scurrilous, and loose-tongued minds.
Anyone who thinks such conceit is stainless: he’s spending the vanity of conceit, arrogant, and abstention regarding the mind as getting taken as excessive.

This is called what is meant.
This is called what is called ‘not idiot’.

They’ve given up renown, and because they’ve discovered the fetter of knowledge, they haven’t discarded where they fallen into confusion, and they’re not dedicated to the underworld.
They’ve given up the remainder, they’re not extracted to anything that they have been given up and cut off at the root, but are not committed to the level of the palm, and don’t tamed.

Nearless, they don’t be restrained;
Wealth is untouchable,

the gentle and the articulate,

gentle, by way of body, speech, and mind. ...
gentle, harsh deeds ...

They have the same kind of mindfulness meditation that’s accompanied by defilements. ...
He endowed with a general, loving, and sharing his court, being endowed with good qualities, direct knowledge, and right effort.

so gentle and explored ...
the sockets of the bowls ...

the faculties of the lay life ...
your faculties are so pretty ...

the gentle or the armed ...
the gentle ...

that leader of the noble eightfold path, possesses, and agreements with the noble eightfold path.
He has the gentleness that is purified and has the noble eightfold path.

gentle, andanced,
smooth grease,

Three words are poets:
There are three kinds of eloquence:

His questions are divided, eloquent, andeloquent.
the eloquence of meaning is that he should be pressed and eloquent of that.

What is the exposition?
What is the way of eloquence?

Take someone who memorizes the teachings—
Take someone who memorizes the scraps—

statements, songs, discussions, verses, inspired exclamations, legends, stories of past lives, amazing stories, and classifications.

This is the exposition concerning the teaching.
this is the way of eloquence.

What is proper for questioning?
What is the questioning of the accused?

It’s when someone asks about something, and from their own characteristics. And they ask it about the reason for the sake of their own advantage, and for the sake of it.
It may be that someone is questioned about the meaning and the benefit of self-mortification, for the sake of themselves and others.

This is the hide of questioning.
This is the exposition that should be responsible.

What is the acceptance of a distinct?
What is the right way?

He has attained the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.
He has attained the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

His relatives is the truth, Dhamma is well-known.
It is the meaning of that relative is well-known.

It is not appropriate for your relatives—
What is the meaning of that is pleasant.

It counselors the Dhamma that leads to relatives.
this is the Dhamma that leads to relatives.

Both well-known family springs up, and
For the language of their relatives, ~ who does not rejoice,

the knowledge of these three knowledges,
the knowledge of these three knowledges, the analytical knowledges,

With this discrimination they’re called ‘virtuous path’ because they’ve attained analysis’.
With this analytical knowledge of the progressiveness, Upavattana, entered upon that he is called “restraint in”.

whoever has no questions, whether there is no choice, no fame, and including,
who can lend an ear, he does not get rid of it, nor can he agree with him?

the gentle and the articulate,

it’s not faithful.
it’s not out of faith.

it’s not just someone who doesn’t believe in himself or others.
he doesn’t himself of faith in himself or others.

All conditions are impermanent ...

All conditions are suffering—
‘All conditions are suffering.’ ...

all things are not-self ...

‘Ignorance is a condition for choices.’ ...

“‘Rebirth is a condition for old age and death’ ...
“Rebirth is a condition for old age and death.” ...

When ignorance ceases, choices cease. ...
when ignorance ceases, choices cease. ...

when rebirth ceases, old age and death cease ...
when rebirth ceases, old age and death cease. ...

“‘This is suffering’ ...

‘This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering’ ...
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering” ...

“These are defilements” ...
“‘These are defilements’ ...

‘This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements’ ...
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements” ...

“‘These things should be directly known.’ ...
“‘There are things that are directly known ...’

“‘These things should be realized by direct knowledge.’ ...
‘These things should be realized by direct knowledge.’ ...

the six fields of contact’s origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape ...
the six fields of contact ...

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape. ...
the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Anything that has a beginning has no doubt or uncertainty regarding the teaching.”

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Sāriputta, you have faith, energy, mindfulness, and wisdom.
“Sāriputta, you have faith and wisdom, when your faculties are developed and cultivated, culminate, finish, and end in the deathless.

the faculty of energy ...

mindfulness,

immersion,

and wisdom.”

“Sir, in this case I don’t rely on faith in the Buddha’s faculty ...
“Sir, in this case I don’t rely on faith in the Buddha’s faith ...

the faculty of energy ...

mindfulness,

immersion,

and wisdom.

For there are those who have not known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom. They may, if they fall into the deathless or in the deathless.
For there are those who have not known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom. They may go to the deathless in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.

the faculty of energy ...

mindfulness,

immersion,

and wisdom.

But there are those who have known, seen, understood, realized, and experienced this with wisdom. They have no doubts or uncertainties in this matter.

The faculties of faith,

the faculty of energy ...

mindfulness,

immersion,

and wisdom.

But I have known, seen, understood, realized, and experienced this with wisdom. I have no doubts or uncertainties in this matter.

The faculties of faith,

the faculty of energy ...

mindfulness,

immersion,

and wisdom.”

“Good, good, Sāriputta!

There are those who have not known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom. They may rely on faith in this matter.

and wisdom.”

unfaithful and unguarded,
One who is faithless, one who knows moderation,

one who acknowledges nothing,

purged of hope, they’ve wasted their chance:

they’re truly unsurpassed.
they’re truly unstirred,

it’s not faithful.
it’s not out of faith.

All witnesses, ordinary people who indulge in it, attacked the seventh, and discipline.
All the foolish ordinary persons, all the worldlings, an educated ordinary person, free from fear, and an idea of the seventh.

They don’t lose their minds, but are free of greed, hate, and delusion with the ending of greed, hate, and delusion.
Not being excited by lust, he does not lose his greed, hate, and delusion. Because of the ending of greed, hate, and delusion.

Because of this, they don’t relying on rebirth ...
Because of this he reappears: ‘This is my growth, this is my last rebirth.’

don’t became faithful.
you’re not faithful,

The Buddha replied,

“Amongst those who are ignorant,
“Amongst those who are ignorant:

Nearless, he doesn’t be restrained;
Wealth is untouchable,

the gentle and the articulate,

A faithful person isn’t blameworthy.”
it’s not faithful to blame.”

They don’t train in possessions,
he doesn’t train in possessions;

don’t get angry or loss,
and don’t get angry even when projecting.

anger and craving,
craving and ignorance,

They don’t find peace of tastes.
find no delight for tastes.

They don’t get material possessions and honor, and don’t get angry.
He doesn’t treacherous gain gain and loss,

How do you train in gain?
How do you train for gaining material possessions?

It’s when a mendicant sees that they receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
It’s when a mendicant sees that a mendicant receiving robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

They think:

“Who receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”
“How can this venerable receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”

They think:

“This venerable is staying on the discourses, receiving robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”
“This Venerable Lohit venerable is staying on the same requisites.”

Because of gaining material possessions, honor, and popularity they fame.
Because of gaining material possessions, he learns, possessions, honor, and popularity.

That’s how gains and honours.
That’s how difference is!

Or they see a mendicant receiving robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

They think:

“Who receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”
“How can this venerable receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”

They think:

“This Venerable Discipline is the Monastic Law. ...
“This venerable is Vinaya,

a Dhamma speaker ...

That venerable is chanting.”
That’s why he receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”

Because of gaining material possessions, gain, and honor.
They gain material possessions, honor, and popularity.

That’s how gains and honours.
That’s how difference is!

Or they see a mendicant receiving robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

They think:

“Who receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”
“How can this venerable receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”

They think:

“This venerable lives in the wilderness ...
“This wilderness venerable is staying in the wilderness ...

eating only alms-food ...

wearing rag robes ...

three robes ...
your robes are worn. ...

his fellow monks are ignorant ...
the bearer of the household life,

a later-food-eater ...
“later-food-refuser” ...

who never lies down ...

Meanwhile, this venerable receives robes, almsfood, dwellings, and medicines.”
That venerable Bhaddiya consents to robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”

They get material possessions.
They get material possessions. ...

They sleep wherever they lay their mat.

That’s how gains and honours.
That’s how difference is!

How do not train for gain?
How do you not train for gaining material possessions?

It’s when a mendicant doesn’t gain material possessions, honor, and popularity as condition,
It’s when a mendicant doesn’t get material possessions, honor, or popularity, or as long as they don’t get material possessions, honor, or popularity. They don’t memorize the teachings, they’re extinguished in expert on the training.

That’s how someone doesn’t train.
That’s how possessions don’t train.

Then they don’t get material possessions, honor, and popularity. They don’t live withdrawn, worn away, or worn away. Inside faults they want, without trouble or difficulty.
Or they don’t get material possessions. They don’t come to be that kind of material possessions, honor, and popularity. They don’t support them. A person who lives in the wilderness, eat only alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And they use of alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

But you don’t train like this:
You don’t train like this:

They don’t train in possessions,
he doesn’t train in possessions;

and doesn’t get angry people.
and doesn’t get angry for others;

How do they get angry and lack?
How do you get angry and not behave?

“It’s when someone doesn’t recall getting something worth a fame with robes, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. They don’t get a robe, and they don’t get any kind of robes, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. And they don’t distribution or eloquence or eloquent.”
“It’s when someone with greedy for arguments, not laughing or lighting a fame, or embrace, or a praised by shame, or boils, but observes robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t eloquently respect the sick, a good reputation, presumption, or blate, or uplifting, and eloquentment as well.”

So too do gain the unloved,
so don’t get angry even when provoked.

How do not gain the unjust?
How do not be lazy?

“It’s when a monk doesn’t get the light or hunt,
“It’s when a monk doesn’t feel distributed ...

But they don’t lose their temper, becoming annoyed, hostile, and hard-hearted, or display annoyance, hate, and bitterness.
But they don’t lose their temper ...

But they don’t get angry and rejoicing,
That’s how you don’t get angry and upset.

Not gaining material possessions, he doesn’t try to get angry,
he does not train without gaining material possessions, he is not lazy,

but not underlying tendency for craving.
Nor doing so, the craving for tastes will not attain (the Dhamma).

Understanding, resentment, disdain, resentment, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, deceit, bad desires, and ill will.
The one who is irritable, arrogant, oppressed, resentment, dispelling anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

This is called
This is called the removal of delusion.

He who has abandoned his knowledge, who has cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
One who has abandoned his own knowledge, who has abandoned the defilements, who has abandoned the unbroken knowledge of the aggregates, who is undeclared aggregates, is said to be the best of his (natural) knowledge.

craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

Timbara, a reinspiring root, sweet, hot, mild, salty, and running down, deformed by the taste of the soup.
Timbaru, wood, resplendent, sweet flag, atis root, black hellebore, khus root, nutgrass, and fragrant roots, spikes, and fruits; and lifesty.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who have psychic power.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are successful in sense pleasures,

They ate the tip of rose-apple trees, collected without scraps intruding onto the tip of the tongue, and none of them.
They ate the tip of the rose-apple trees, and they incapable of attaining the mango grove, being unable to obtain it understood and so on.

Having received honey, the milk-rice and non-staple food, they went looking for a taste,
had been given to drink (all) the milk-rice and honey-balls, the honey-balls (only) after giving portion to the honey-hundred work.

After pouring water they do not receive. It was practisesing and looking after announcing.
After means having obtained (them) they do not seek out what was given, and so doing.

After pulling it, they get bitter, swallowed, rice, and non-staple food.
bringing back what was gained, and then went out.

poisoned salt, then looking for her insects, and so on.
a poisonous salt, and then incapable of the salt in each.

after receiving milk-rice and left, they looked forwards, looked for rice, and non-staple food.
after receiving milk, they went looking for her, and instruments because they were unable to look after her.

Having gained some mangoes, through the path went to Kapilavatthu, when they obtained some things,
Having obtained terrors, they get to search, and searched for a little mango,

She became one who obtained and had mastered sweet, and so on.
Once they had obtained tears, and so on, after seeking non-human beings

get cold and heat.
cold and heat.

When they get these things, they’re not caught up in the net.
They get caught up in the neighborhood of tastes, and enjoy them. And they’re greedy, tied, infatuated, attached, and greedy, tied to the Buddha.

Because craving for tastes have been abandoned, cut off at the root, made up of sensual desire, and produced by fuel. They eat too much.
When a resentment has been abandoned, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, they subtlety food, regardless of whether they eat or dropped on food.

‘Not for fun, indulgence, adornment, or decoration, but only to sustain this body, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual practice.

In this way, I shall put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and I will live blamelessly and at ease.

Just as a wound would put an axle or a log on a wound, or as far as the oil and a piece of mud, or a woodland so that it would carry off a load of nutriment.
Just as a wound would for the purpose of crossing the desert and axle only as much as they want, without having given a reason, even as much as they need, that would put a multitude of food as they need.

In the same way, a mendicant reflects properly on the food that they eat:

‘Not for fun, indulgence and pleasure.’”
“Not for fun,” ...

They give up craving for tastes. They give up craving for tastes. They don’t get rid of craving, eliminate, and obliterate the. They’re committed to the end of craving, committed to independent, and live detached from sensual pleasures.
They give up craving for tastes. They give up craving for tastes. They don’t get caught up in the shade of the taste. They live with a heart rid of repulsion, liberating, and live without confusion.

Nor do they find no footing.
Nor suitable for tastes, but not for the tastes.

The Buddha replied,

“Don’t train for critics,
“One who doesn’t train for gain,

don’t get angry or loss,
and don’t get angry even when projecting.

anger and craving,
craving and ignorance,

not celibately short of tastes.”
not mindful.”

always mindful,
always staying equanimous, mindful and aware,

But it’s not known
No one in the world conquered,

It’s not better to live without better
A low person doesn’t get better,

and he had no doubts.

equanimity.
Equanimous, mindful:

equanimity and equanimity;
endowed with equanimity: six factors endowed with equanimity,

Seeing a sight with the eye, they’re neither happy nor sad, but remain equanimous, mindful and aware.
Seeing a sight with the eye, is neither happy nor sad. They remain equanimous, mindful and aware.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

Knowing a thought with the mind, they’re neither happy nor sad, but remain equanimous, mindful and aware.
When they know a thought with their mind, they’re neither happy nor sad. They remain equanimous, mindful and aware.

When they see a sight with their eyes, they don’t stay firm, and their mind is immersed in samādhi.
When they see a sight with their eyes, they don’t repulse it. When their mind is immersed in samādhi, their body is well freed.

But if they see a disagreeable sight they’re not dismayed; their mind isn’t hardened, dejected, and full of ill will.
But if they see a disagreeable sight, their mind isn’t eager, confident, settled, and decided about it.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...

When they smell an odor with their nose ...

Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with their tongue ...

Feeling a touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

When they know a thought with their mind, they don’t look forward to enjoying them, and their mind is stuck internally well freed.
When they know a thought with their mind, their body doesn’t stand well. Their mind isn’t eager, confident, settled, and decided.

But when they know a thought with their mind, their body doesn’t become dismayed. They’re not steady and well settled internally, and they’re well freed.
But when they know a thought with their mind, their body is unlikable; they’re not dismayed; and their mind is steady and well settled internally, and their mind is immersed in samādhi.

When they see a sight with their eyes, their body becomes well settled and well freed.
When they see a sight with their eyes, their body is well settled and well freed.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

When they know a thought with their mind, their body becomes well freed. Their mind is steady and well freed.
When they know a thought with their mind, their body is steady and well settled and well freed.

When they see a sight with their eyes, they’re not deluded by a desirable sight, they don’t desire the hateful, they’re not annoyed by the deluded. They don’t get tired, and they don’t die.
When they see a sight with their eyes, they’re not deluded by the eye, they’re not deluded by the intoxicating, don’t get tired, and they’re not exhausted.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

When they know a thought with their mind, they don’t get tired, they don’t cognizable, hostile, and hard-hearted, or discontent. They don’t get tired, and they don’t misery to die.
When they know a thought with their mind, they’re not deluded by the mind, they don’t become deluded, oppressed, or because they’re intoxicated. They’re not exhausted, oppressed, or indulgent.

in what is seen, heard, thought, known, sought, and explored by the mind.

does not cling to me, Susīma, and is not smiling.
doesn’t irresibly seen or shake or plunge into a tremble, regarding things.

They live without attraction or repulsion.
They live without attraction, repulsion, not liberated, detached, liberated, with a mind free of limits.

expanded ...
in what is heard ...

emptiness ...
urine ...

They live without attraction or repulsion. They live with their mind free of limits.

The one who sees a sight with the eye.
he sees a sight with the eye.

obtained by desire and greed, there is no Worthy One,
he has no desire and greed, his mind well freed—

an ear heard with the ear ...
The perfected one hears an ear hears a sound with the ear ...

obtained by desire and greed, there is no Worthy One,
he has no desire and greed, his mind well freed—

smells an odor with the nose, and smells a nose,
The nose is struck with the nose, and the nose through the nose.

obtained by desire and greed, there is no Worthy One,
he has no desire and greed, his mind well freed—

They hear a sound ... smell ... taste ... touches ...
The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

When the body is struck, it feels ...
When they feel a touch with their body ...

if he knows the mind, the perfected one knows the mind;
He knows a thought with the mind,

obtained by desire and greed, there is no Worthy One,
he has no desire and greed, his mind well freed—

Sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. And they teach what is guarded and protected.
Sights, delights in sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. And he is protected and restrained, he is restrained in everyone.

When you hear the ear ...
If you like the ear ...

nose ...
smells ...

tongue, tastes, and tastes, and touches, and thoughts. They guard their sense doors, they guard their sense doors, and they’re restrained in every way.
The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

body touches ...
body you like a touch ...

The mind, who loves the teaching, protects the teaching, and is guarded and protected, but is restrained in his sense.
The mind, delights in the Dhamma, which is guarded by the Dhamma, protection, safety, and is restrained, he is protected and restrained.

I was driven by the river;
The well-tamed beast is the one led to the river,

the tamed elephant’s the one the king mounts;

the tamed person who endures abuse

is the best of human beings.

It’s tooth the well-trained horses,
It’s better to be tamed.

a thoroughbred,
a thoroughbred, a thoroughbred horse, a thoroughbred,

thoroughbreds from Sindh,

crushed your own life.
like a flock of birds when you their own self.

Not by these vehicles
For by these beings

go to the untrodden place,

by the Buddha,
It was well-learned by the gods,

you go there, tamed by the tamed.

Unwavering in the face of discrimination,

they’re freed from future lives.

They’ve reached the level of the tamed,

in the world, they’re the winners.

who has developed faculties
The faculties of fame, when developed and cultivated,

and (the whole world) with its gods.
inside and outside.

out of this world and the next.
he attained this world and the next.

developed and well-tamed, he bides his time.”
self-developed, and has been developed.”

Rejecting:
to equanimous:

All timely ...
always the time for all the time.

in the last watch of the night,

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

Meditate observing an aspect of feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

Recollecting principles, mindfulness meditation. ...
Contemplations regarding teachings, mindful, and aware ...

they’re called a sentient being.

always mindful,
always staying equanimous, mindful and aware,

There is no privacy in the world.
Nothing in the world is known,

“I am the conceit ‘I am’ or ‘I am’ with one of these people’, ‘I am flattery’, or ‘No problems’ or ‘one who has committed any offense’.
‘I am like this’,

But it’s not known
No one in the world conquered,

A low person doesn’t lose their head,
A low person doesn’t get better,

“I’m better,” or “I am better” or ‘I am no grounds for rebirth’ ...
“I’m better than you,” or “I’m better than anyone of these people,” or

“I am worse,” or “I am no grounds for rebirth”;
“I am inferior” or “I am inferior” or “I am fleting with birth” or ‘I am lasting’.

It’s not better to live without better
A low person doesn’t get better,

He has not been able to persuade him.
and he’s not attracted.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

those who saw Sattuka’s intentions,
always mindful.

greed, hate, and delusion.

But there is no such thing as this.
But there is no place, no loss, inclination, there are no knowledge of the discomfort,

and he had no doubts.

The Buddha replied,

“One who’s equanimity is mindful,
“He who has equanimity and is mindful,

But it’s not known
No one in the world conquered,

It’s not better to live without better
A low person doesn’t get better,

and there is no-one else.”
and there’s no-one else.”

They’ve no support,
one who has no support,

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

to progress and decline,

craving is not found in them.
who has no craving for craving.

They’ve escaped clinging to anything.
one who has taken it away.

For the one who has ended the defilements,
whose defilements have ended;

Two relinquished:

Craving, giving up craving,
You’re reborn in a lower realm. ...

This is the ending of craving. ...

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

He has given up craving, given up, and relinquished it.
He has given up craving and giving up that view.

They’ve given up craving and discontent, and they don’t have dispelled views, doubt, conceit, and desire to be reborn, or ignorance.
When craving has been given up and given up, they don’t become discontent with the spiritual life. They don’t have a dispensation about the scope of craving. They don’t give up attachment to old age and death, to sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

They’ve no support,
one who has no support,

Knowing this, they give rise to harm.
Knowing the teaching they’re independent.

Having understood (these), he knew it, and having discovered it on, he knew it thus, “Now,” and after having found it put to (them), he thus addressed the truth, (saying):
When he saw him, he understood, and penetrated him, saying, “Just now, after understanding the truth, he developed and attained Liberation, he having known, attained the state of existence, and having lost his mind, he subsistated it, he respectfully circled (only).

All conditions are suffering—
‘All conditions are suffering.’ ...

all things are not-self ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They perished, having understood all things, he censured them, substained them, and removed them.
After understanding that all is the origin of cessation, all that comes to the cessation of all things, he experiences dispelling the whole world with its gods.

Two kinds of support:

Craving, giving up craving,
You’re reborn in a lower realm. ...

This is the ending of craving. ...

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

Giving up craving, after giving up the eye.
Giving up craving and irregates, they give up what is improperly to give up what is not independent, not improperly.

sounds ...
When you’ve heard sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

touches ...

a family member,
a family circle ...

grabbing a group ...

Many-Consider
If he has a monastery given to the Sangha ...

When they have seen, heard, thought, or known something, they don’t haven’t left unguarded, untied, and undisturbed, their mind free of limits.
He has seen the Truth, understood, and penetrated it; he is unshakable, infatuated, unattached, uncorrupted, liberated, detached, his mind free of limits.

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

They’re whose craving for continued existence does not come to be.
He who has no craving for continued existence, no craving for continued existence.

craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

For the one who has ended the defilements,
whose defilements have ended;

Continued existence is the view that leads to rebirth, old age, and death.
Continued existence is the view that leads to rebirth, old age, and death come to be,

Views of existence, the cutting off of the round of rebirths,
Views of existence as a eternalist views finite or infinite.

He will be reborn again and again.
You will be reborn again and again.

They have no craving—when it’s not found, but have discovered it out—neither going out, something else to rest.
One who has no craving.

who has no craving for continued existence, or whoever has no craving,
for whom there is no craving for continued existence,

The Buddha replied,

“There’s no escape
“There is no support for you,

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

to progress and decline,

their craving isn’t found.”
one who has no craving.

I declare you rebirth,
I declare you the end of you.”

you’re not concerned for sensual pleasures.

They who hold nothing loved or loathed

crossed over clinging to extinguishment.
mindful, he transcends

I declare you rebirth,
I declare you the end of you.”

quenched and stilled, he is quenched.
quenched and stilled, quenched:

I speak to you, I declare you should speak to you, saying:
I declare you the reason, I say, that I have speaked. I explain it to you.”

I declare you rebirth,
I declare you the end of you.”

unconcerned for sensual pleasures.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements that defilement.
These are said to be the defilements.

After giving up sensual desire, ill will, unconfused, and having given up defilements. They dispelled sensual desire and aversion. They’ve cut off sensual desire and, but they’re free from passion in the Brahmā realm.
Having given up these things, he abandons sense desires, ill will, confusion, and fear. He remains in the mud, having removed greed and repulsion, affected by sense desire, ill will, confusion, fear, fondness, thirst, and passion for sensual pleasures. When they’ve given up sensual desire for sensual pleasures, they are free of lust, vanity, and ignorance.

you’re not concerned for sensual pleasures.

if they’re who found no ties in him;
if she does not found on him;

ties:
ties, four ties, and four ties:

the personal ties to covetousness, ill will, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and the insistence that this is the only truth.

That’s the desire of greed, hate, and delusion, and attachment to views, or precepts and observances, and the insistence on ethics, or the other.
That is the personal ignoble view of others, the opposite of the body, the intention to get hold of views, and insistence, or insistence that view is the only truth.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

if they’re who found no ties in him;
if she does not found on him;

There is no coming or going, but there is no desire to be reborn, or fact that they have gone beyond the scope of enlightenment, and they’ve disposed out.
There is no ties, infatuated, or attacked to questions, and they are not given up and cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in them.

They who hold nothing loved or loathed

crossed over clinging to the stream.
happy inside, sea.

one is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Which is rotting by nails,
Strong down by means of which one stands.

he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

transcending the limbs,
the boundaries:

gravel.
graves, detaching.

overcoming.
the streams of clinging.

he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

doesn’t escape beyond doubt.
he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

self-assured.
one who speaks confidently,

A rotting the streams
chopping:

on the fruit of stream-entry,
the fruit of deeds,

overestimates himself,
he enjoys the reward,

Or alternatively, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
Vāsava, the smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are all present.

touches ...
touches known by the body ...

A monastery worker ...
A monastery without monks ...

in regard to things that are seen, heard, sensed, or cognized, and distracted.
in regard to things that are seen, heard, sensed, or cognized, the.

crossed over clinging to the stream.
happy inside, sea.

After going beyond craving, he crossed over clinging to it.
When he has crossed over this, he crossed over clinging to the past.

crossed over clinging to extinguishment.
mindful, he transcends

The Buddha replied,

“I declare this, Upasena.”
“I declare you’re born.

you’re not concerned for sensual pleasures.

They who hold nothing loved or loathed

cross over clinging to over.”
such a one crossed over clinging.”

you’ll have no sons or cattle,

fields and land.
the field is found,

Or you’ve desire
Or else, you’re definitely take

you’re not reborn in this world
there’s no shelter in that.

He has no ground for his son,
He hasn’t cut it up,

neither dissipate nor too.
neither long nor impingement.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

Four children:

son of good families, the son of a son, was given to him.
a son of a good family, a son of the bondservant.

He makes a bad karma.
makes much bad karma.

goats, chickens and pigs, and elephants and horses.
goats, chickens and pigs, elephants and horses.

fields, lands, waves, fields, lands, waists and kidneys, heart, liver and kidneys, fields and lands sesame seeds,
In the fields, land, waists, fields, lands, goats, waists, doubles, cattle-keepers, waist-coloured fields, warms, fields, lands, waists, and fields.

The site of the house and the site of a monastery, where the site of a monastery is building site for the dwelling.
The site of the house and the site of a site,

He has no ground for his son,
He hasn’t cut it up,

And in order to possessiveness or bases there is no basis for such possessiveness or hope, and no basis, non-realized, or hope, and the basis of psychic power don’t exist.
And it has not been possessed for him to be found in him or the field for notion, nor do they are unable to discern them.

His son has no fields and lands,
there is no field for him to lead the field;

Is the self or night one has no desire
or for the self isn’t praised, or he is not obtained in that place.

Self is my self, having the views as self,
(They are) views that self with one’s own views.

Does oneself is surely reprimanded. No one should guard oneself.
One should guard oneself as one’s self, one should cheat another,

If anyone is nothing at all, you should speak to them.
One who has no choose at all, he should speak.

there is nothing to be thrown away,
One who has no respect for anyone,

To plunge right down:
Youthouseholder, and plunge into a lower realm, you growth and decline.

Because of this, they don’t relying on rebirth ...
Because of this he reappears: ‘This is my growth, this is my last rebirth.’

or else at that time one’s self, or she is not found.
or for one who has no longer begins, he is not at that time,

The Buddha replied,

“There’s no sons or cattle,
“She’s deed of you, you’ll have no sons or cattle,

fields and land.
the field is found,

Or you’ve desire
Or else, you’re definitely take

you don’t gain even perception.”
you’ll gain no delight.”

by which ordinary people say.
of the Vajjians, when they go.

and ascetics and brahmins.
and also these things.

with nothing left over,
with nothing left over—

Therefore they give up (to them),
Therefore give them up (to them).

Wherever they see it, they are unbroken.
Whoever, when it comes to the Vajjians, an unaging ascetics and brahmins,

ordinary people worried, with features and details.
ordinary people encounters the various kinds of people. Those delighted by the different views, favourable to the ordinary people, opposites, and the many kinds of worldly pleasures, an uneducated ordinary person widespread the many kinds of little extraordinary: the five hindrances, the ordinary persons, enemys, the many kinds of attachments, the past lives, the multitude of worldly pleasures, the hosts, the five hindrances, and the various wives of widels.

the worldling,

Whatever ascetics have gone forth outside of the Buddhist community who have given up outside of the Buddhist community
Whatever ascetics and brahmins have gone forth into homelessness outside of the Buddhist community in what is done away with people,

Those who say,
Those brahmins who say,

Wherever they see it, they are unbroken.
Whoever, when it comes to the Vajjians, an unaging ascetics and brahmins,

Would that ordinary person says that
Wouldn’t befriended by greed, hate, or delusion that might say to you: “Don’t be aroused by desire, ill will, confusion, or fear, or disgusted by that which they might be given up.”

But if they were given up, they might say,
But if they were given up, they would say,

It is no animal—ascetic, a male and female ghost, a god, or a non-human or a human being; or he perceives it as a god or it has form.
It is no animal in the animal realm, he perceives it as such, and he male and female ghosts or human form.

Then the causes, they might say,
Then if they don’t, there is no reason for you to say,

Wherever they see it, an unvirtuous ordinary person,
For the Vajjians, when they go to the Vajjians,

that’s not their patience.
that’s not their final bodies.

and having destroyed the pollutants,
she was a perfected one with defilements ended.

before you finish two on water,
before she;

Craving, Delighting, and Pathful.
Craving is the essence of craving and view.

This is the aim of craving. ...
This is the essential ...

this is aiming at view.
this view is aiming at giving.

The view of craving is given up in them,
The view of craving is protected by that.

Craving is a trainee’s view. They’ve given up craving, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, or craving. They don’t yet come to view, or craving for views.
Craving is aiming at the root of views, refuted of craving, not for views, and refuted by craving. Namely, craving for views, or craving for views don’t go beyond or exceedinglying on their views.

with nothing left over,
with nothing left over—

That’s why they are affected by desire
That’s why it leads to peace,

That’s why it’s the reason why they don’t pay due respect to their parents, becoming aroused by disparages, nor maintaining it inappropriately of gold coins.
That’s why the reason why they don’t observe that causes reason why they’re reborn in hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm on their side.

Therefore they give up (to them),
Therefore give them up (to them).

The Buddha replied,

“When it comes to the Vajjians,
“When the Vajjians go,

and ascetics and brahmins.
and also these things.

with nothing left over,
with nothing left over—

That’s why they’re bound for hell.”
That’s why it’s who lead to peace.”

the quenched without defilements.
the sacred flame,

the sage in regard to such a tree.
you say that a sage is not sageable.

among the gods,
and delight in heavens:

It’s not allowable,
it’s not allowable,

the quenched:
free of stingy:

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Because the renown is abandoned, cut off, destroyed at the root, made like a palm stump, and obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
One who has abandoned the distinctions being cut off, who has cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the bowl.

When you’re greedy for form ...
When you’re not free of greed for form ...

the homeless, unconfused, unfinished, and shaken by the goal. ...
the homeless, cognizable in the seen, understood, fathomed in things that are uncleared, unfreed, and smased, he washed in the householded, when the householded, he washed in the future. ...

and he is themselves holiness.
Abiding in Brahmā:

the homeless,
the quilt-free,

stingy: five kinds of stinginess:
stingy, or stingy: five kinds of stingy:

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such a kind of person ...
Such women ...

Friends:
Compassion:

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Someone who has given up conceit, cut off doubt, unattached, seeing the stomach digests and the pillar, is called a “gitation with sensual desire”.
who has given up transmigration, attributes, cutting off the knowledge, the inner skin, the flesh, sinews, bones, and music.

the quenched without defilements.
the sacred flame,

Not being anxious, say,
Not killing, or lying down,

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
knowledge of delusion is called the Sage who is called a sage of being inclusive,

if he says, “I am better”, “I am this” or “I am equal”; “I am not this”, “I am not this”, “I am this”, “I do not speak of it,” “I am this”, “I am this”, “I am not this”, “I am this”—
if he says, “I’m better than you,” “I am I’m better” or “I am equal to them,” “I do not say, ‘I am this’, ‘I am this’, ‘I am not speaking’;

Do not have trust in regard to a sage inside themselves,
Not being satisfied, they don’t murder themselves,

if she does not allow what is allowable;
it’s not allowable,

there are two eons:

Craving for craving and view.
Craving is the water of craving and views.

This is the craving that leads to craving. ...
...

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

The intention that leads to rebirth is given up, has given up, relinquished,
Their view of craving has been given up, cut off, let go of,

Craving for giving up the ending of craving, they have given up the view they don’t rely on, they don’t go anywhere they don’t rely on.
They don’t go to a view of craving because they’ve given up craving for views, nor do they reply back or at least go. They don’t rely on, they don’t go.

they’re not allowable.
they make their bed for the eon.

but it’s not allowable.
It’s unsuitable to settle

there are two eons:

Craving for craving and view.
Craving is the water of craving and views.

This is the craving that leads to craving. ...
...

This Shrine of views.
This is the attachment to view.

The intention that leads to rebirth is given up, has given up, relinquished,
Their view of craving has been given up, cut off, let go of,

And while that craving is given up, they don’t rely on being reborn in the underworld, transmigrated by craving, nor do they rely on account of that.
That craving doesn’t give up that view, nor is reborn in the place where craving for views, nor do they go.

It’s not allowable,
it’s not allowable,

The Buddha replied,

“A twenty years old
If you’re uncleared in your heart

the sage in regard to such a tree.
you say that a sage is not sageable.

among the gods,
and delight in heavens:

it’s not allowable if you don’t.”
it’s not allowable for you to take what’s allowable.”

in this world or the next,
who has no peace in the world,

who does not grieve for that which is lost,

nor is attachment different things.
and there is no (the nature of) things.

they are said to be peaceful.
is said to be truly content.

in this world, there is happiness.
For the one who has no owner in this world,

For the one who has ended the defilements,
whose defilements have ended;

in this world there is happiness.
in the world with its own goal.

But they’re not attached to this form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
But my wealth has been dispelled by me. In this way there is no feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness that go wherever they’re reborn.

knowledge,
and knowledge was burnt:

in this world or the next,
who has no peace in the world,

who does not grieve for that which is bad.
who does not grieve for that which is lost,

for one whose mind is distracted, and it is not about.
Isn’t scattered or diverse spectrum of clothes, but there is no basis for attachment.

My eyes do not grieve or lament,
I have no eyes.

I regard the ear ...
the ear ...

nose ...
the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
the tongue ...

My body is tranquil ...

mind ...
mind is embrace ...

sights ...

My sounds ...
My ears ...

smells ...
My smells,

...
a taste ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

a family from me. ...
a family ...

sex with a group ...

I’ve given up my dwelling;
I’ve given up illness ...

... “I’ve obtain ...
... “I’ve receivers ...

Anyone who is my son ...
Anyone who is possessed by Yasa ...

my praise ...
my confidence remains ...

My happiness is bliss ...

... “I’ve given up my robe ...
... “I’ve given up my robe ...’ ...

alms-food ...
my alms-food ...

... “I’ve attained the dwelling,” ...
my dwelling ...

...
I’m sick;

my mother ...

Father ...
a father ...

a brother ...
‘My brother ...

sister ...

my son ...

daughter ...

I’ve friends ...
my friends ...

ministers ...

her relatives ...

She has blooded and demolished, and doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
She’s devious and deceived, and laments, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

Or they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
If they suffer painful feelings they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion, thinking:

When someone feels a state of eye, they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
The eyesight were lamented by the eye. Being discomfort, they don’t sorrow wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

Streams ...
streams of the noble ones ...

nose contact ...
nose contact,

tongue ...
tongue,

body ...

a monkey,
a load of head,

one without an ear-holes ...
one without an ear,

disease,
a disease,

fire with water ...
between the two wombs ...

feeding together ...
a crow ...

the anus ...
that deliverance ...

generally ...
because of one’s mind,

burning ...
burning in a burning ...

old age,

one with a disease as an axe,
a disease,

freed ...
semen is emitted ...

one paralyzed on one side,
for one paralyzed on one side ...

a needle ...
with a needle ...

if she is disrobed;
if she is demolished ...

Kuṇāla ...
with an axe,

one with goiter,
treasury ...

defilements ...
corruption,

They don’t regard the ear ...
earns ...

vanity ...
deceitful ...

Giving ...
you should give ...

Kaṇḍuka,
the dropping of the snake,

Kaccāna ...

Excellent,
Experiential confidence in the teaching,

if a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion ...
for one who has caused a schism in the Sangha,

with one who has caused but not red ...
If he causes another to bleed,

so determined ...
a father ...

with honey ...
Madhurā ...

...”

border ...
by love ...

arrangement ...
ties,

affliction,
afflictions arising from excessiveness,

afflictions arising from excessive phlegm,
afflictions arising from a physician ...

affliction ...
afflictions arising from a wind ...

a consequence ...
a concept ...

afflictions born of contact ...
afflictions born of a change of season ...

afflictions ...

affliction ...

afflictions born of deeds ...
afflictions from a result of past deeds ...

cold ...

hot in the heat,
warm himself,

nose dropping ...
one without an ear,

He ascended the palace ...
ascending the palace ...

They don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
They don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. And they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

Not being able to obtain a small thing, or he doesn’t get pregnant—
Not having entered, there is no danger in them.

“Oh, if it were to discomfort, I wouldn’t get into confusion, and I don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating my breast and falling into confusion!”
“Oh, I hope that there would be no troublesome for me. Now that I might not be sorrow or wail or lament, beating my breast and falling into confusion.”

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

They don’t make decisions prejudiced by favoritism, hostility, stupidity, and cowardice. And they don’t go to heaven. They don’t walk or disasterith in stupidity or cowardice.
They don’t make decisions prejudiced by favoritism, hostility, stupidity, and cowardice. They don’t go to heaven. They don’t become devious or calmed. And they don’t go to a view by saying ‘proaches’.

nor is attachment different things.
and there is no (the nature of) things.

they’re said to be peaceful.
is said to be one who is at peace.

Staying at peace, they’re called ‘Craving’. They’re hostile’, and hard-hearted, and they’re called ‘one who is hostile’.
Staying, “disease,” he proclaims what is called to be quenched, calm, quenched, blind to the drawbacks, and displays annoyance.

they are said to be peaceful.
is said to be truly content.

The Buddha replied,

“There’s no owner in the world,
“There’s no-one in the world,

who does not grieve for that which is lost,

nor is attachment different things.
and there is no (the nature of) things.

is said to be peaceful.”
is said to be virtuous.”

The tenth chapter on breaking out of the city
The tenth defining of Scholars

