Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

14. Tuvaṭakasuttaniddesa

The Teaching of the Tusitas
The Nuns topics

I ask you, Kinsman of the Sun.
I ask you this, Kinsman of the Sun.

the great hermit,
The great hermit and seclusion,

How does a mendicant be disillusioned?
How do you become disillusioned?

are not attached to in the world,
(They are) not attached to in the world.

I ask you, is the point of what you do.
I’ll ask you, Kinsman.

Taking permission:
asked permission:

Without asking permission of annoying, without asking permission and questioning,
Questioning without questioning, having seen the questions, in questioning, and taking leave of the giving up and questions.

What is questioning?
What is asking permission?

If he has known what is unknown, so that there is no unknown, unseen, unattained, unrealized, and uncomprehended.
he is one who has not known what is unknown, who has not known, seen, realized what is unknown, and who has not known, is observed. He asks a question to understand that the development of it.

this question without asking (the Buddha).
This I ask is the questioning of Questioning.

What is questioning?

he asks a question about what is seen, heard, thought, and known, and explored by the wise.
he is characterized by the marks of his relatives, who have known, seen, and penetrated them with others.

This is the definition of something that is seen.
this is the definition of in regard to questions.

What is meant?
What is I asking permission?

How many times have ripened in transmigration? This is the right amount of thorny for two reasons? If they ask, “What is the point of giving up?”
he becomes making familiar with the two ends, and he thinks, “How is it about? How does he answer?” How is he asks the question of, “How is it?”

This is the delimitation of the questions.
This is the construction of vanity.

These are the three questions.

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

(but) after asking permission (himself) in the human forms,
having questioned a human being asked in regard to a human being,

What is the reason why?
What is the point of human beings?

People went to the Buddha and asked him, “Venerable sir, the monks, nuns ask him about theappointment, laywomen, and laywomen; they ask him about the aristocrats.”
When people approach the Buddha, they ask questions, and ask questions about the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen; they ask questions about the aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers.

this is the highest quality.
this is the highest quality.”

What is the question of (good) human beings?

There are deities who ask him about his questions, asking the Buddha, (saying): “Brahmā, the humans, questions of Brahmā; (Sakka) the lord of the demons, asked melodious deities, and asked the judgments of the gods.”
There are deities to ask questions that the Buddha, Yakkhas, and Nāgas questioned him. They ask questioned the native spirits in the air. As they were ensuressed, the lord of the demons, the gods ask the demons,

this is the question, this is the reason.
this is the question of (decourse.)

What is question?
What is definitive?

Whatever form he goes to, the Buddha, his mind-made, complete in all his various parts, is low. And he asks a question of the Buddha,
Whatever form he goes to, he asks a question of the mind-made, complete in all its various parts, not deficient in any faculty. Then he go to the Buddha and asks him a question.

This is the right question.
This is the question.

These are the three questions.

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

The question of others is asking.
(They ask) for questions in regard to others,

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

(Only) asking questions about the present life and in lives to come.
Questioning here and now, in the here and there,

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

Impermanent without questioning, I ask questions, without asking permission of the defilements,
and having questioned, I ask questions in order to questions.

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

In the past, future, and present
In the past, future, and present.

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

internally and externally.
(where is) in questioning with questions that are internally in oneself,

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

Questionally Ignorant, skilled in questions, and answers.
Qualities are skilled in questions and not skilled in questions.

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

ask, questions, (that’s) questions, the component of sense-spheres,
asking permission of the origin of the elements: I ask you,

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

I ask questions on the Mindfulness Factor of Complete Awakening,
Questioning the Mindfulness Factors of Complete Awakening

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

questioning the faculties of the strength,
asking permission of the Faculty (of the Faculty) investigation -

Another three asks:
Another three kinds of question:

I ask you the path questions
I questioned Path

I ask you, “All ask you, and I ask you this.” You may listen to it.
I ask you, “I ask you about it, I ask you about it.” And he said, “Listen, I’ll inspire it,”

I ask you this, your question:
I ask you this, and you will do it.”

the sunshade.
the starting point of the sun.

the sun is what is meant.

‘Both Master Gotama, the Buddha is even a well-spoked harp.’
Gotama, the Sunakkhatta of Gotama, Gotama of the Sun, who is Master Gotama, the Questions of Gotama:

That’s why the Buddha Kinsman of the Sun,
That’s why the Buddha, Kinsman of the Sun.

I ask you, Kinsman of the Sun.
I ask you this, Kinsman of the Sun.

and the illustrious great hermit.
There are peace of seclusion and that is to say.

Three seclusions:

The thought of the body, the mind, and the complete in attachment,
The discerning of body and the mind,

What is the body?
What is thereward?

It’s when a mendicant frequents a secluded lodging—a wilderness, the root of a tree, a hill, a ravine, a mountain cave, a charnel ground, a forest, the open air, a heap of straw.

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He proceeds alone, and concentrates on walking for alms.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and he walks alone; he walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrated on walking mindfully; he walks alone; he proceeds in private on walking mindfully, returns, and he robs the seats himself.

this body is someone who wants to body.
This is another body.

What is the thought of mind?

For someone who has attained the first absorption, his mind is freed from the hindrances.
For someone who has attained the first absorption, the mind is without hindrances.

For someone who has attained the second absorption, the placing of the mind and keeping it connected were disturbed.
For someone who has attained the second absorption, the placing of the mind and keeping it connected is without placing the mind.

For someone who has attained the third absorption, the mind is free from rapture.
For someone who has attained the third absorption, the mind is unification of mind.

When someone has attained the fourth absorption, pleasure and pain arise in his mind,
For someone who has attained the fourth absorption, pleasure and pain are unperturbed.

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form, and the mind is diverse in perception of diversity.
For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form in the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of variety of perceptions of variety, and the mind is separated from the dimension of infinite space.

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of the dimension of infinite space has vanished.
For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of the dimension of infinite space is diversed.

For someone who has attained the dimension of nothingness, the perception of the dimension of infinite consciousness has been distributed.
For someone who has attained the dimension of nothingness, the perception of the dimension of infinite consciousness is unification of mind.

For someone who has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, the perception of the dimension of nothingness has been disturbed.
For someone who has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, the perception of the dimension of nothingness has been attained.

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and theories of a stream-enterer. And my mind was discovered from that defilements.
Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and forms of precepts and observances, and theobserved of precepts and observances.

There are grossness of sense desires, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
the solitary retreat, and the fetters of sensuality are grossty.

He has gone beyond the fetters of sensuality, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
Without giving up the fetters of sensual desire, the fetters of rebirth, and the underlying tendencies of sensual desire.

In the realm of luminous form, desire for rebirth in the formless realm, conceit, restlessness, and ignorance.
The realm of luminous form, desire for rebirth in the realm of luminous form, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance. Their mind is dissipated from the conceit ‘I am’.

this is the feces of mind.
this is the mind end to fathom.

What is it?
What is the attachment to cleft?

These are called the defilements and the aggregates.
These are called the attachments and the defilements (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.

the deathless is what is meant.

It’s the fading away of cessation, extinguishment.’
It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

this is the end of attachments.
this is the end of attachment.

Secluded from the body and mind, whose mind is pure, who has reached seclusion, the highest bliss, and who has reached sanctuary.
And in the case of the body, speech, mind, and mind that person whose mind is free from seclusion and suppression of the defilements, who has reached seclusion and pure suppression regarding beings.

There is one thing that has nothing to do with the deathlessness, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.
There is one thing that is peaceful, sublime, there is the deathless state. And the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“It is peaceful, this is sublime—that is, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.”
“This is sublime state, that is, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.”

After some time, when they have practiced these things, they lead to the realization of the fruit of non-realm.
Then after some time, there are things that are proficient in the present life, having achieved their own goal, utterlyzed that is:

the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.

these are saids of the state of subtle states, which are pervaded by the deathless, and the state of peace, the state of Nibbāna.
these are called the state of peace. They are the state of quenching at the time of death, and the state of the deathless state.

What is the great hermit?

searching for a great mass of ethical conduct ...
searching for the ethical conduct, searching for peace. ...

the great mass of wisdom ...

the great mass of freedom ...
the great mass of freedom,

searching for the great mass of liberation, the beautiful seer of the great seer.
searching for the greatest of deliverance and knowledge and vision of freedom.

great generals, and broke his arm-to-be, a large following of warriors, insistences, and shouting out of craving, got a great repulsion, the truth, the right path leading to the great (magical) powers, looking for the deluges of (wholesome) faculties, with great efforts and strength, without protection, who searching the minds of mindfulness, who is peaceful,
on a great earth, the road, the poisonous victory, a great light, a great flood, the shouts of wrong view, the great direct-knowledge, the battle-hardened, the hard-to-see, the four great faculties, the eighteen attendants, the requisites for the deathless, the very beneficial, for the very beneficial, and forwarding the deathless. And all these states of existence, the great hermits of existence, the great hermits of the equipment, the safe.

The Blessed One looked over the hundreds of By looking for being looked down (for the people), the Lord of the Sage, the Benefit of the Relics, the Best of Men, great Seer,
I was seeking peace by the head of the hundreds of men and gods, the Buddha Kapilavatthu, the way of the gods, the Best of Mahisa, and Kapilavatthu.

the great hermit,
The great hermit and seclusion,

How do you see this?”
How did he be disillusioned?

When they see what they have done, they become disillusioned, dispassionate, and freed regarding greed, hate, and delusion.
When they saw him, they became disillusioned with dispassionate and freed. They having become disillusioned with greed, hate, and delusion, being disillusioned with them, hate, and delusion.

host ...
the Upavāna ...

flies ...
offensive ...

contempt ...

stinginess ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

...
the vanity of negligence ...

negligence ...

all defilements ...
all my defilements ...

all those who were badly made. ...
all of them have done badly. ...

... all were to tame ...
all the world ...

all of them ...
all fever ...

all those who are peaceful,
all those who are peaceful inside ...

One who has given up all unskillful things and stills, settles them on, settles them, and stills them.
One who is skilled in all processes, settles them with allaying, and settles them.

The monks, it is good, ordinary, or a trainee monk—
The monks, it is mature, a trainee monk, a trainee, or a novice monk.

How does a mendicant be disillusioned?
How do you become disillusioned?

What is not grasping in the world?

Regarding the four kinds of grasping, they don’t take pleasure in that, thinking:
while wandering in the four kinds of grasping.

in the world of the gods,
in the world of the gods, delight in the world of men, looked down on the world of the gods,

Anything included in feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
Whatever form there is—whether past, future, or present,

are not attached to in the world,
(They are) not attached to in the world.

That monk was stored away.
That’s why he was created,

“I ask you, Kinsman of the Sun,

the great hermit,
The great hermit and seclusion,

How does a mendicant be disillusioned?
How do you become disillusioned?

What are they in the world?”
What in the world is not grasping?”

the root of negligence,
the root of perceptions,

said the Buddha,

that’s not metal: I am the conqueror of all,
unattached in all ways:

Whatever craving there is,
whatever craving there is,

in the Monastic Law to one who is training, he is mindful,
on the Monastic Law, those who are always mindful,

The Buddha is proliferated at the root, thighs beyond all sides.
The Buddha is stepped in the root, all faces, and undisturbed in all signs.

a proliferation, proliferation,
the proliferation of proliferation.

Craving is the fifth thing.
Craving is the five aggregates of views.

What is the root of craving?

Ignorance is rooted in ignorance, roots, and plans are the root of arguments. It is a root of conscience and prudence.
Ignorance is rooted in ignorance, at the root, roots, and insubstantial shameless.

This is the root of craving.

What is the root of views?

Ignorance is rooted in ignorance, roots, and plans are the root of arguments. It is a root of conscience and prudence.
Ignorance is rooted in ignorance, at the root, roots, and insubstantial shameless.

This is the root of views.

from criticism to criticism.
like the Blessed One’s criticism.

Then the Buddha, Bhaggava, the Blessed One, Bhaggava, Simila, is afraid of wrongdoing, wning to the Fortunate One, abscesses, military retreat, fickle, scorning, and musical instruments. He has good qualities, being analyzed.
But, Bhaggava, the Buddha has breaked the Fortunate One, Bhaggava, Bhagu, Bhaggava, and Khemaka. He has defeated the Blessed One, whose mind is genuine of virtue, the influence of virtue, the Blessed One, the perfected one, the fully awakened Buddha, when he has developed the physical end of craving, virtue, wisdom, and the Buddha has appeared.

The Buddha has frequented remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, without trouble or difficulty. And the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the Blessed One, the perfected one, the fully awakened Buddha, has reached the end of the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the Buddhas.
The Buddha has produced a particular remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, or else the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. And the Buddha has achieved the goal of life as an abode, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the Blessed One, the perfected ones, and the fully awakened Buddha. And the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, when he has developed the four foundations of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors.

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of knowledge, and that is, the Buddhas to say, the omniscience, and the Blessed One.
Buddhas, the liberations, and the opposites of all kinds, and the knowledge of truth of the Buddhas is the truth of opposite sex.

said the Buddha,
(This is) rooted in the root of suffering. This is the Fortunate One’s root.

that’s not metal: I am the conqueror of all humans.
I’m not bound for all living creatures.

hymns are what is meant.
and mind is what is meant.

Understanding as understanding of principles, right view, and right thought.
wisdom ...

‘I am formless’, ‘I am not this’, ‘I am underlying tendency for desire’, ‘I am not this’,
The underlying tendency for form, repulsion ‘I am’, unbuilding is the underlying tendency ‘I am this’,

When you cling, strongly cling, to desire, greed, relishing, and craving for feeling ...
If you’re not free of greed, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving for feeling ...

perception ...

as in choices ...

consciousness, conceit ‘I am’, and the underlying tendency ‘I am’,
consciousness, conceit ‘I am’, and the underlying tendency ‘I am this’,

said the Buddha,
(This is) rooted in the root of suffering. This is the Fortunate One,

that’s not metal: I am the conqueror of all humans.
I’m not bound for all living creatures.

It’s the root that would be fitting, and cessation.
‘I am the root of proliferation and the root of all activities. And I’d see for the cessation of all people, for the ending of defilements.’

The Buddha is proliferated at the root, going beyond all sides, and all of them:
The Buddha is conceived in roots, stems from roots, bound for humans.

Whatever craving there is.
whatever craving there is.

And they are all terms for the rest of sensuality, namely,
And he has all sense of entirely suppression; he is qualified

Whatever is given,
Whatever is it:

craving for sights ...

craving for thoughts.

Internally and internally and external craving.
There is craving in the interior and exterior.

inside himself internal himself inside himself inside himself inside himself,
inside himself in himself,

then the mind is what is meant.

mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact are conscious.
Whatever the mind element is related to the mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind consciousness.

That craving was produced by craving, and with the lay life as its object. She interrupted on one side and unified, and so on.
That craving is produced by craving and cling to them, and associated with the gods of the Thirty-Three, and with the cessation of a single object.

Whatever craving there is,
whatever craving there is,

In the Monastic Law he trains those who are an expert on the Monastic Law.
For them he trains in the discourses, saying:

Standing at the time of the whole very time, he is always clung to how to touch all over the hundred times of trouble. It is the time forwards and forwards, when the gentle and the water is from the middle, and from the top of the round of the winter season, whenever they arise, in the first watch, and in the middle watch.
Standing by a hundred times, abode, all the time, Pāṭaliputta, was permanent, everlasting, eternal, imperishable, and imperishable, complete in all the middle watch, and in the last watch, it was still untouched by the middle, as it was watch to the rainy season, which was watch to return to the western wide, fact, and in the last watch.

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

developing mindfulness meditation,
developing the states of peace, mindful, and mindful,

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

When there is no being inclination, there is no mindfulness that needs impediment. When there is no mindfulness and situational awareness, their mindfulness is established and lucid.
When there is no attendment there is no mindfulness that is calm, mindfulness and situational awareness, and mindfulness and situational awareness, being granted, mindfulness and situational awareness.

Another four reasons:
another who has four reasons:

* mindfulness that is constantly predicted by mindfulness, mindful, and neglected mindfulness.
(And) mindfulness and goodness, being mindful, he breathes in mindfulness and situational awareness, mindful and aware, constantly and mindful.

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

Seven quiets, mindful, with the mindful, he endowed with good qualities, (to say):
Seven days are mindful, he possesses seven factors .

Recollection of the Buddha is a recollection of the Dhamma. Recollection of the Saṅgha is recollection of virtue. Mindfulness of breathing, recollection of deities, mindfulness occupied with the body, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of peace.
Recollection of the Buddha is a Dhamma consisting in conformity with the Dhamma. Mindfulness of the body, speech, and mind. Recollection of generosity, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of death.

That which is mindfulness, recollection, recall, mindfulness, remembrance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.
It’s the mindfulness, recollection of mindfulness, calm, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

this is called mindfulness.
This is called mindfulness.

With this mindfulness he is said to be endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,
With this mindfulness he is said to be ‘accomplished’, endowed with, were reborn in the company of the being reborn in heaven.

Three trainings:

in higher ethics, higher mind, and higher wisdom.

What is the training in the higher ethics?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

expert in ethics,
excessive ethics,

Gaining introduction, above, below, and across good qualities.
In constant virtue, the Faith of Purification, and the warding off of skillful qualities—against in skillful qualities:

this is the training in the higher ethics.

What is the training in the higher mind?

Now, take a mendicant who, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.
Take a mendicant who, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.

As the placing of the mind and keeping it connected are stilled, they enter and remain in the second absorption ...
second absorption ...

And with the fading away of rapture, they enter and remain in the third absorption, where they meditate with equanimity, mindful and aware, personally experiencing the bliss of which the noble ones declare, “Equanimous and mindful, one meditates in bliss.”
third absorption ...

Giving up pleasure and pain, and ending former happiness and sadness, they enter and remain in the fourth absorption, without pleasure or pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness.

These are the higher mind.
This is the training in the higher mind.

What is the training in the higher wisdom?
in the higher wisdom?

It’s for a mendicant who’s wise. They have the wisdom of arising and passing away which is noble, penetrative, and leads to the complete ending of suffering.

They truly understand: “This is suffering” ... “This is the origin of suffering” ... “This is the cessation of suffering” ... “This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”.

They truly understand: “These are defilements”... “This is the origin of defilements” ...
They truly understand the defilements ...

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

In the Monastic Law he trains those who are an expert on the Monastic Law.
For them he trains in the discourses, saying:

After giving up craving, the training in the texts on monastic training, and the higher morality would train in the higher mind.
Their craving for giving up and settlement to give up.

were to train in these three trainings:
are these three trainings today in attack the training.

But you should train yourselves:
But those who understand:

Seeing this, you should train yourself:
Seeing the training,

trained in this way,
you should train like this:

were to apply the mind in samādhi,
were to train in mind,

can train in faith,
He should train in faith:

were to train in energy,
one should train in energy,

and mindfulness established,
and mindfully;

would train in stilling the mind.
would train in stilling the mind:

But you should train in wisdom.
But you should train in wisdom:

in what is suitable, should you know,
in what is suitable, to understand the training;

who should completely understand what should be completely understood,
who should understand what should be completely understood,

should be given up.
you should give up what should be given up.

developing mindfulness meditation -
developing mindfulness of breathing should be developed.

Do what he should be realized, and he should train in taking care of the truth, and he should undertake and follow the training.
Doing what you should be realized, and avoid what you should train in. You should undertake and follow the training.

in the Monastic Law to one who is training, he is mindful,
on the Monastic Law, those who are always mindful,

The Buddha replied,

“It’s enough for me,
“From the time of concepts,

said the Buddha,

that’s not metal: I am the conqueror of all,
unattached in all ways:

Whatever craving there is,
whatever craving there is,

In the Monastic Law they are training, Teacher’s training.”
those who are training, always mindful in the Vinaya.”

whatever deep knowledge of the teaching
Whatever Dhamma you know is

internal or external,

because of that,
you won’t be injured by that.

for they’re called a being,
for this is said:

Whatever state of the Dhamma they have understood
Whatever thought they are beyond

Whatever is beneficial or what is wholesome, or what has not yet been declared by the Dhamma,
Whatever is beneficial or what is wholesome, he has what is skillful,

What virtue?
Which is the virtues of being himself?

from an eminent family—a family of disrespect, unbroken, impeccable, spotless, and unmarred.
from an eminent family, from a family, wealthy, or well-known family. They’ve gone forth from a family of loss, a bad family, the underworld, hell.

‘I receive robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick, or he’s no expert in the discourses or the texts on monastic training.
robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t stay in the wilderness, ate only alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And I’m not one who lives in the wilderness, eats only alms-food, wear rag robes, or boils.

... “I obtain ...

the dimension of nothingness ...

attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.
the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.

These are said to be the virtues of their own qualities.
These are said to be the virtues of those without it.

Whatever you know of your own good qualities would recognize, if you know, but give them up, get rid of them, saying,
Whatever families he’d understands, he would know, see, and he dispel them,

Whatever bodily and verbal processes
Whatever thought there is in himself

Or again,
Or alternatively,

who you worship,
who is the one who’s preceptor or the quality

Or again,
nor outside,

you won’t get angry for yourself;
not because of that.

or if it is for one’s own qualities, it would not be frustrated, stinked by others, or weariness, or conceited away.
or if he were to make it entertain by himself, he wouldn’t get upset by others, nor downcast by him if he were to resentful, he wouldn’t get rid of conceited, or if there was no coming to it.

because of that,
you won’t be injured by that.

for they’re called ‘deathless’.
for this is said:

It was not easy to teach for good people to teach the Buddhas’ disciples. It was not laid down. It was not laid down by the Buddhas.
It was not given to Buddhas’ disciples. It was taught by the Buddhas, they didn’t announce them to the enlightenment of the good persons. It was not spoken of to them, nor does hes with a doubt, nor does he explain the way of them.

for they’re called a being,
for this is said:

The Buddha replied,

“Whatever perception of the teaching
“Whatever Dhamma you have

internal or external,

because of that,
you won’t be injured by that.

for they are spoken of.”
for this is said.”

(While) you would not think of them,
(but) you’re not think of them,’

Working or boat,
World or buy,

touched by many different countless ways.
Personalizing in the formless realm,

I was not able to endure what was given up.
what was given up by the name of this cotton-down (like).

You’re better than that, it seems to me,
it seems to me that you’re better to not think,

“I’m better,” “I’m better,” “I’m better,” or, ‘I’m equal to be profession by a beautiful and ugly, or a male and a worker.”
“I’m better,” “I’m not better” or “I’m equal to birth,” or “Does people with a profession,” or “This is an invariable opposite logical work,” or “This is so obsessed by words.”

(While) you would not think of them,
(but) you’re not think of them,’

Working or blowing,
Wandering on, it still low.

“I am worse,” or “I am no grounds for rebirth”.
“I am inferior”,

“I am like this,” and they don’t refute conceit; ‘I am’, ‘I’, ‘I am this’, ‘I am what is profession’, ‘This is a term for your sense fields’ or ‘I have been cleared by a certain principle, or by one of contempt or by one or other of these three knowledges.’
“I am,” “I’m like a profession;” or “I am fleeting with Master Gotama,” or “legrate-worker’s work,” or, “I’m going to a good place, a heavenly realm, or by one or other of good conduct.”

Working or boat,
World or honey,

He is touched by many suitables.
he is touched by misfortune.

he has entered the manner in many ways:
he is endowed with many ways:

touched by many different countless ways.
Personalizing in the formless realm,

It is not possible (to) on.
it does not endure (it).

the self is what is meant.

if he makes himself endeavour, but not inspiring, he vanishes involved like this:
while bringing oneself, he does not endeavour.

I was not able to endure what was given up.
what was given up by name.

The Buddha replied,

“It wouldn’t think
“No he’d think it wasn’t worth

Working or boat,
World or buy,

touched by many different countless ways.
Personalizing in the formless realm,

(but) you can’t stopping them.”
what is called old age (but) for no short time.”

they prescribed internally
The one-self in the middle

another monk shouldn’t.
Neither.

with internal clarity,
Having arisen in himself,

But no matter how could you be fixed
But isn’t self for the Anīkaratta

In the same way:
The one who is neutral

Greed, hate, and delusion ...
Greed ...

host ...
the Upavāna ...

flies ...
offensive ...

contempt ...

stinginess ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

...
the vanity of negligence ...

negligence ...

all defilements ...
all my defilements ...

all those who were badly made. ...
all of them have done badly. ...

... all were to tame ...
all the world ...

all of them ...
all fever ...

all those who are peaceful,
all those who are peaceful inside ...

might resolve it,
Then they’d give me the full ordination to calm in all the attainments.

they prescribed internally
The one-self in the middle

Those venerables don’t realize any other mendicant.
Consider any other mendicant.

In one way, apart from wrong practice, looking forward or back, except for the noble eightfold path, or elsewhere and extinguished the noble eightfold path. It would not be appropriate for them to get rid of the noble eightfold path.
If he hasn’t cleaned his purity by path or taken by someone else, except in the noble eightfold path, he who exerts the noble eightfold path— except if the noble eightfold path—whould look downwards, not forwards, not forwards, go back to the beginning, “after searches for a noble eightfold path—and I’m seeking the noble eightfold path—whoever was ready to look for support them, except for the noble eightfold path—and I looked for the noble eightfold path—whould because of the noble eightfold path—

another monk shouldn’t.
Neither.

Calm and quiet.
with one who has arisen inside:

When there’s greed, hate, and delusion ...
with greed, hate, and delusion ...

Without quenching, one who has stilled the formations of peace, the one who has become quenched:
all those skilled in the lower realms, thinking,

with internal clarity,
Having arisen in himself,

But no matter how could they be fixed?
But isn’t self or deliberate

Name-Enterers
“Not for happiness” is said.

Self as self,
but the view of self,

free of greed, desire, and ignorance.
He has no view held abstaining from annihilation,

But you’re able to find no fault.
You don’t blame yourself.

he should free himself,
or for something else.

Anyone who takes hold of it should resemble
Anyone who takes hold of that reputation should be released from his dwelling.

Anyone who transmigration at the root of a sage, I’m going down the brimming fished and grown right there.
One should report to that which one receives the food and drink and remarks, and who has gone beyond the shadow of the world.

Because of this, they don’t relying on rebirth ...
Because of this he reappears: ‘This is my growth, this is my last rebirth.’

But no matter how could you be fixed
But isn’t self for the Anīkaratta

The Buddha replied,

“At one who clings
“The one who has arisen in the middle

another monk shouldn’t.
Neither.

with internal clarity,
Having arisen in himself,

as one has no desire or no more.
where would the self for no night?”

as (runking) the ocean is in the middle of the ocean,
as it is at the middle of the ocean,

They’re far from us, but don’t stand firm like it.
it’s a stable to grow old.

standing like this, unstirred,
standing to see this:

wouldn’t make a monk into a river.
or a monk.

Standing as the sea in the middle of the ocean, they are standing,
It rolls on the ocean, not for one who stands in the middle.

Eighty-four thousand leagues, and insects height.
It is eighty-four thousand leagues on the ocean,

Forty thousand leagues the water brought to boils of the fish.
Forty thousand leagues below the water three leagues,

which is forty thousand (people) leagues, and water does not clung to,
and forty thousand leagues away to water.

In the midst of it there is no water, no waves or clinging to it. It doesn’t shake or tremble when a hundred leagues.
forty thousand kilometers does not tremble. It doesn’t shake or rock or tremble.

It’s untroubled, impeccable, spotless, and undisturbed. And when someone is standing, he one stands on the ocean shore.
It’s untroubled, untroubled, not falling down, like a poisonous rain dreams.

This too is how the ocean stands in the middle, not for one who stands on the ocean.
That’s how the ocean is defined, not for one who stands in the middle.

Or alternatively, they are the seven oceans between the seven ocean and the ocean.
Then the Seven Divinities in the great ocean,

But the water does not tremble, nor is tremble, but is not tremble.
But no water doesn’t tremble, nor get wide, or closely woven.

It’s untroubled, impeccable, spotless, and undisturbed. And when someone is standing, he one stands on the ocean shore.
It’s untroubled, untroubled, not falling down, like a poisonous rain dreams.

This too is how the ocean stands in the middle, not for one who stands on the ocean.
That’s how the ocean is defined, not for one who stands in the middle.

so too it is to be given up.
standing upright, they’re to be given up.

just as the consenting of formations
just as the accepting of the shoulder and the gratitude.

Standing to get material possessions, honor, and popularity. They don’t try to get fame or region. They don’t shake or tremble or get done. And they don’t tremble or get better.
Standing material possessions, honor, or popularity. They don’t try hard, fame, or disgrace, or get hold of them. They don’t shake or rock or tremble or get scared. They don’t tremble or happy.

standing to see him.
while remaining in it,

they give up craving and not come to craving.
are of craving for non-existence.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Anyone who has given up craving and cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated it, and unable to arise in the future—are said to be the best of these things,
One who has abandoned the calm, cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future—are said to be the foremost.

giving up desire, being not-self—
With the giving up of desire they’ve given up—

They don’t try to persevere or dice. They don’t try to get fame or disgrace. They don’t give rise to pleasure in pain. They don’t give rise to joy, and don’t give rise to pleasure.
They don’t tremble or get something tasty. They don’t tremble or get fame or winning. They don’t grow in common. They don’t grow old, they don’t shake or rock or tremble.

standing like this, unstirred,
standing to see this:

or a monk’s earlier.
or a monk’s intentionally make him anxious.

those who saw Sattuka’s intentions,
always mindful.

And wouldn’t be reborn in hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm.
There’s no desire, hate, and delusion for people who’d apply themselves to their work. They’d don’t fever, if they’d be reborn in heaven.

There are some whose own clunging it, get others to internal or external.
Sometimes anywhere else, whether internal or external;

wouldn’t make a monk into a river.
or a monk.

The Buddha replied,

“In the midst of the ocean,

They’re far from us, but don’t stand firm like it.
it’s a stable to grow old.

standing like this, unstirred,
standing to see this:

and make no effort.”
Don’t make a monk?”

Kimbila, All-Seeing Visionary,
The eyes were unshakable,

I brought up what is contrary to the Teaching and the Monastic Law.
I must explain the teaching to remove Sakka,

Kep practices, sir,
Kindly, sir, practice the way.

or even the Pātimokkha,
Or alternatively, while the concentration is still immoral.

As a consequence, it rolls the skin.
Embrace, rolling:

he taught them the way of speaking about.
he declared: “How have you done, teach story, revealed, make plain, opened, analyzed, and revealed to me?”

The Buddha looked around with eyesrough, five eyes:
The Buddha Viḍūḍabhacca and five eyes:

the eye of the flesh, the eye of the flesh, the eye of the eye, and the eye of wisdom, and the eye of clear vision and the ear of the nose.
the eye of the flesh, and without the eye of the eye and of the eye, and with the eye of wisdom and without the eye of clair and the eye of wisdom, and with the eye of clear vision and without the eye of the eyes.

The Fortunate One said this to me: Visionary,
* The Fortunate One spoke about the eyes of flesh,

The Buddha praised me with the five kinds of vision:
the Buddha’s praised me with the five kinds of vision:

blue, yellow, red, and white.

If he were playing dust on the Buddha’s eyes, and very blue, he would see that mostly blue, yellow, and white.
And his eyes are deep blue, blue, and blue-black and blue, yellow or white.

They had yellow, red, white, or golden garland.
They’re yellow, beautiful, and illustrious.

And they are bloody-handed, red and illustrious.
And they are sightly beautiful, charming eyes, etc. of both hands and feet.

They lie in the middle of the day in the Kaṇhāyanas, with a gravel and pebble.
They’re good in the middle of the day, with a glorious knife, handle, and feet sightly behind.

They’re white, with a white cloth from others, with a white stilt household, clean clothes, and beds.
They’re white, with white color, a white hue, and door.

Now, the Buddha made me drink by means of that incarnation for a whole night, with the eyes might see for a league all around both night and day.
Now, the Buddha sees me in the morning and through the whole of that life-forms a hundred leagues away from all around both for a day and night.

Because when he possesses four factors
For when he has the four factors that is darkness,

if the sun has gone down;
there is an sunset for the set,

and the observance-day procedure is black.
And he has abolished the observance-day procedure;

his mistress is a wound.
And a jungle thicket,

Just as a great storm blows on the cloud,
Just as a great rain cloud was full of black

Even the fourth factor of complete in the darkness.
Even such a one possesses the four factors.

no damage or archery, there’s no creeper, and making it from a conflagration.
no matter how to see a wall, a leaf-hut, or a mountain cleft, and a place wherever they can go and see visits.

and took some of the garments in a single fruit,
and having made a sign in sesame seed for him.

It’d be fruitful.
(This) fruit is to remove the fruit.

thus the Fortunate One’s vision Pāṭikaputta
thus the Fortunate One’s dispensation, (saying):

So the Fortunate One would engag me with the eye of the flesh,
Thus the Fortunate One opened me with the eye of the flesh,

And how does the Fortunate One see with the divine eye?
The Fortunate One, how does the Fortunate One open the eye with his clairvoyance,

With clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, the Buddha sees sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place.

and he knows beings arise according to their (good and bad) actions...

“These dear beings did bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

They never spoke ill of the noble ones; they had right view; and they chose to act out of that right view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a good place, a heavenly realm.’ And so, with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, they see sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.
They spoke ill of the noble ones; they had wrong view; and they chose to act out of that wrong view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell. These dear beings, however, did good things by way of body, speech, and mind. They never spoke ill of the noble ones; they had right view; and they chose to act out of that right view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a good place, a heavenly realm.’ And so, with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, they see sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

and he knows beings arise according to their (good and bad) actions...

If he wished, the Buddha might see the world elements, and the two world-elements, or the world elements, and the benefit of the world system, all-element.
If he wished, the Buddha might see the world elements and the two elements. And each and every day in the world, he could see the world elements, the central sys of the world elements, the suffering in the world, and the world of men.

Orever, they may see what they like.
Or he could see what he likes.

thus the Fortunate One is pure and bright.
thus so pure and bright,

Thus the Fortunate One, having understood with the divine eye,
Thus the Fortunate One knows with his divine eyebrows,

How did the Fortunate One make known to the eye of wisdom?
how did the Fortunate One make the eye of wisdom?

He has great wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, swift wisdom, sharp wisdom, and penetrating wisdom. He has attained excess of ten kinds of widespread. And he converses confidence in his heart the weakened by wisdom, the One of Ten Powers, who has attained to great wisdom.
He, widespread wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, excelling the responsiveness of widespread wisdom, the One with great wisdom, the darkness of wisdom, the one with good wisdom, the widespread wisdom, the four castegories of consciousness, the one with great wisdom, the dread widel of wisdom, the people of consequence of their wealth.

For the Blessed One has arisen in the unarisen path, gave birth to the unborn path, explained the unexplained path. He is the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have explained the path.
For the Blessed One is the one who gave rise to the unarisen path, who gave birth to the unborn path, who explained the unexplained path. He is the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have now explained the wrong path.

For the Buddha knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.
For he is the Buddha, who knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.

There is no such thing as knowing and seeing the Buddha has not known, seen, understood, realized, and experienced this with wisdom.
There is no known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom.

In the past, future, and present are present. All of the Buddhas come from in front to truly.
past, future, and present. All these things are included in the Buddha’s presence, and all his present.

Whatever I know there is, whether something is beneficial or what is harmful, or what is beneficial in this life. What is beneficial in this life, or what is beneficial. What is the meaning is expounded, or what is beneficial as is beneficial.
Whatever there is, Is there anything that can be known—who know what is beneficial or what is beneficial, what is the meaning—what is beneficial or what is beneficial, the meaning is that it is beneficial or what is beneficial, the meaning is the preference is the meaning—the meaning is beneficial, the ultimate, aroused, or the meaning is this.

all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not return to the Buddha.
all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not return to the Buddha,

all of speech ...

all is done.
all is done in mind,

In the past ...
regarding the Buddha’s knowledge of the past, future, and present.

he knows as far as there is giving,
he knows as far as (deeds) knows how far as can be taken as far as (only) knows each time.

knowledge of the decision: from the time period has a limited knowledge, but only then passes beyond, not by overcoming the rule.
knowledge of the limitless knowledge, and then does not know how to go beyond the limit of knowledge. Namely, he does not come over from the next life.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

As the sun (dwells) at the top of the these two is gravel, the above the end (work of) the stones on the ground, the above the top of the evening at the end of the stone, not the rain of the sun.
As the sun (dwells) lighting up the firmament which lasts on the ground, so too above the collar bone but stands on the above ground all sides.

so too the Buddha’s knowledge, and the number of knowledges were totally destroyed,
In the same way the Buddha’s knowledge, and all they became known,

he knows as far as there is giving,
he knows as far as (deeds) knows how far as can be taken as far as (only) knows each time.

knowledge of the limiting,
Knowledge of the limited knowledge and the number of precincts.

If I don’t know it or reach the end of the robe, and then passes beyond, there’s no composed.
knowledge hasn’t let go beyond, and there is no unshakable knowledge.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

Knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge,
the knowledge of the Buddha’s Dhamma,

All things are clear in reference to the Buddha’s doctrines, applying to the dependent origination of the Buddha.
all things in the Buddha’s monastery, having them developed with attention, giving attention,

with the Buddha’s knowledge of all,
knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge of all,

He knows all sentient beings’ habits, knows their inherent tendencies, knows their bents, knows them as with little dust on their eyes and with much dust on their eyes, with keen faculties and with dull faculties, with good behaviour and with bad behaviour, easy to teach and hard to teach, capable and incapable of achieving knowledge,
All sentient beings know what is beneficial and what is harmful, they know what is not to be spoken, and they are in great prisoned. They know what is hard to dust in their eyes, and they are capable and hard to teach with much dust on their eyes. They’re capable and incapable of seeing, with keen faculties and with dull faculties, with good qualities and with bad qualities.

The world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans, the Buddhas swells towards the Buddha.
the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans, princes,

all the finger-snap ...
all the stingy fish ...

In the same way the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans,
In the same way, this world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans, the Buddhas swappear in moved.

all the heavy stones, even just to attack the space so clear.
all the heavy burden is just like a heavy cow.

In the same way, those who comprehend the Buddha’s knowledge even though the teaching and training proclaimed by the Buddha.
In the same way, those who have learned and comprehended with wisdom the Buddha taught today onwards.

Knowledge of the Buddha, Knowledge, (thinking):
a wise and virtuous decrease, (thinking): It is the greatest of the Buddha,

Even those aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics who clever householders—they’ve already planned, planted out their doctrines—broad, collapse up the answers to their questions.
Even those aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics who are subtle, accomplished in the doctrines of others, hair-spliters. They seem to be considered as if they were created by the Realized One, and cut off their views and go to see you.

When the Buddha has clearly seen them, they are blameless, but have not seen them.
The Buddha has clearly seen them, and when he has sensed these three questions have been relinquished.

and they were unable to quench the Fortunate One’s words.
and they were shaking off, they increasing him.

Rather, the Buddha shines in wisdom.
Rather, the Buddha shines in that place.

Thus the Fortunate One would Visionary,
The Buddha opened the eye of wisdom

How did the Fortunate One, Visionary Visionary,
(But) the Fortunate One, how did he make the Awakened One,

And the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes; with keen faculties and with weak faculties, with good qualities and with bad qualities, easy to teach and hard to teach. And some of them lived seeing the danger in the fault to do with the next world, while others did not.

It’s like a pool with blue water lilies, or pink or white lotuses.
It was just like a lotus pond with lotuses born and grown in water: some remain submerged in the water without rising out of it, others reach the surface of the water, and others still rise out of the water without being touched by it.

In the same way, the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes.

The Buddha knows that

“This person is of greedy temperament, one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, one of speculative temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”
“This person is of greedy temperament, this is one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”

For one of greedy temperament talks about people.
The Fortunate One spoke about the person of greedy temperament about the person,

In one of hating temperament the Blessed One tells about loving-kindness to another person,
The Fortunate One tells about the person of hating temperament,

In one of deluded temperament, the Buddha questions at the right time without asking permission.
for one of deluded temperament, for a person who is habitually asks questions, truely, and meaningfully.

Mindfulness of breathing explains the Buddha.
He tells about a person of thinking,

And that is how the Buddha explains a person’s confidence, in order to explain the teaching, and the Saṅgha, and the ethics, learning, generosity, and wisdom.
In one of faithful temperament, the Buddha declares that person’s present life. He explains the Teaching to the Sangha, the virtues of the Order, the Dhamma, and the Saṅgha.

In one of specific knowledge, the Buddha declares, the foundation of meditation, and the foundation of non-existence.
The Buddha tells about the person whose knowledge is the point of suffering, the foundation of the true teaching, and the sign of impermanence is suffering.

“Standing high on a rocky mountain,

you can see the people all around.

In just the same way, all-seer, wise one,

having ascended the Temple of Truth,
the Palace made from Dhamma, Visionary One,

Being rid of sorrow, look upon the people,
rid of sorrow, look upon the people,

swamped with sorrow, oppressed by rebirth and old age.”

Thus the Fortunate One, separately,
Thus the Fortunate One, Visionary One,

The Fortunate One has discovered all things without Visionary,
The Fortunate One, how did the Visionary One know,

All-Seing Visionary is what is meant.
all-knower is what is meant.

He has attained all knowledge and insight into the omniscience.
He has arisen in omniscience, which is accompanied by all observed.

“She hasn’t seen anything you altogether.
“There is no enemy in whatever is seen

untrue, these things must be done.
Knowing this, unshakable,

to have direct knowledge all kinds of direct knowledge.
all-knowledge one can know,

from that, the Realized One sees clearly.”
The Realized One is the best for all around.”

The Buddha looked around all around with eyes:
The Buddha says,

from nothing, All-Seeing, Visionary,
An unshakable Visionary,

help from identity,
the Teaching,

So it is not possible for the sake of identity that they don’t rely on logic, nor don’t rely on after consideration, don’t rely on account of their own views. Thus they don’t rely on idea that accept a view after consideration.
So it is not possible that I don’t go by lineage, nor don’t go by testament, nor does I force, nor do I believe in line with the teaching.”

identity view,
I’m unable to bear the Dhamma

Removal in the discipline,
Removing in the presence of one who falls away,

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

he has concealed offenses, and concealed for a half-month.
is concealed for the offenses and concealed for the concealed.

What is the cream of the winnowing?
What is the explanation of the Dhamma?

carpenters, fever, afflicted (of disease), stomach-butchers, fever, and epilepsy. Or their illness grains executions are hunger, boils, eczeals, urine, spit, phlegm, bile, phlegm, pus, blood, sweat, fat, tears, grease, saliva, snot, synovial fluid, urine.
his carpenters are hunters, sickness, death, thirst, passions, meat, rams, sunn hemphs, infantry, and his illnesses. Or the intersects, boils, eczeals, the dys, the inner skin, the flesh, the sinews, theate, the ears, the nose dagger, the tongue, the body, the head, the clothes, the far shore. And the uphold, the phlegm, the tongue, the behead, the behead, the thorns, the hunger, the head, and the wind, sun, and reptiles.

These are called the tendencies of food.
These are called the speces of offenses.

What concealed?
What is the concealed place for the concealed?

Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All of these things are the hindrances, ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All these are disturbed by anger, enmity, contempt, domineering, envy, avarice, deceit, and ill will.
Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All of these things are the hindrances, ill will, anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

These are called the teachings that are conceived.
These are called the concealment of the offenses that were concealed.

Intelligent they disrepute.
it will be destroyed by one who abandons it.

They lead to decline.
They lead to anxiety. They lead to the decline of getting material possessions. They lead to anxiety.

How do they lose?
How do you get free of desire?

They burn, swep away, and running away.
They burn the streams of the people,

they replied,
They lead him around

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do they lead to decline?
How do they lead to the decline of one who is declined?

lead to decline in skillful qualities.
When they lead to decline,

What are wholesome things?

It is because they haven’t given up the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
right mindfulness ...

These things lead to decline in skillful qualities.
These things lead to an obstacle.

In this way they lead to decline,
In this way they lead to the decline.

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do you get lost?
How are they lost?

Because those bad, unskillful qualities arise.
That bad, unskillful qualities arise to be stored up.

Just as when Bāhiya was catsted in the air.
As they were lying down in the air, the ground in the air, (such as) a trees, the hands, and the foots of a trees, bedsing the beds, –

In the same way, those bad, unskillful qualities arise in you, and on.
In the same way, bad, unskillful qualities arise with that same way.

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.

And how does a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master live in suffering and discomfort?

When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts don’t arise.
When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena don’t arise: memories and thoughts of them. They don’t associate with them, they don’t bad, unskillful qualities.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by bad unskillful qualities,

they’re said to have a teaching master.

When they hear a sound with their ear ...
Furthermore, a mendicant hears a sound with their ears ...

When they smell an odor with their nose ...

Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with their tongue ...

Feeling a touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts don’t arise.
When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful qualities arise and bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by bad unskillful qualities,

they’re said to have a teaching master.

That’s how a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.
“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles, inner enemies, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

What are the three?
What three?

greed, hate, and delusion.

hate ...

and delusion.

These three are inner stains, inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

greed creates harm;

greedy mind,

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A greedy person doesn’t know the good.

like a greedy person doesn’t see the teaching.
isn’t able to see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

creates harm;
hate is harmful;

They disturb the mind.
hate is cruel;

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

An angry person doesn’t know the good.

An angry person doesn’t see the truth.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

Delusion creates harm;

deluded mind,
deluded mind.

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A deluded person doesn’t know the good.

Mūḷaka does not see the truth.
One is like a deluded person doesn’t see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind to fellows.”
only delusion isn’t overcome by delusion.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Great king, three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

What are the three?
What three?

Great king, greed arises inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.
Greed is a person who has for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

Hate is hate ...
hate ...

and delusion.

These three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

greed, hate, and delusion,

have arisen inside oneself,

Destroy the person with bad thoughts,

as a reed is destroyed by its own fruit.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Greed and hate come from here;

from here spring discontent, desire, and terror;

here’s where the mind’s thoughts originate,

like a crow let loose by boys.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

Rebirth in the removal of thirst, the uprooting of attachment, the giving up of the letting go of all attachments, the ending of extinguishment.
extinguishment, letting go of all identifying, giving up, and ending.

I brought up what is contrary to the Teaching and the Monastic Law.
I must explain the teaching to remove Sakka,

Kep practitioners, sir,
Keep prepares, sir!

saying,

One who has practiced the way that is proper for a practice, and who lives without devotion, relying on the path, and who practices accordingly. He has developed the following five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.
right practice is the right way to accumulate, not shake, the practice, and the practice that leads to the. They neglect line the teachings. They fulfill the practice dealing with supplementary regulations of the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They guard the sense doors and eat in moderations. They are dedicated to wakefulness, lack of mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.

and caught up in this way,
caught up in this way, they say:

Bhaddāti, having gone to the Buddha, the Serpent,
Bhaddā, having requested the Buddha, he went to the Buddha.

Or he explains, teach, asserts, establishes, clarified the teaching, analyzed, and revealed the whole world.
Or he explains, teach, assert, establishes, clarifies, analyzes, and reveals it.

Kep practices, sir,
Kindly, sir, practice the way.

or the Pātimokkha.
Or alternatively, while the concentration is still immoral.

(Mahinda replied:) “Cosidering the Pātimokkha, restraint is undertaken for the failure of skillful qualities.”
(There is) virtue of the Pātimokkha, the restraint of the Monastic Code, and the wholesome qualities of absorption; for the embracing skillful qualities.

Or alternatively, the mind becomes stuck in, stillness, discomfort, and concentration.
Or alternatively, there is immersion for the purpose of remaining immersion, which is undeluded, not unconcentrated mind, having no regrets, thinking,

or even the Pātimokkha,
Or alternatively, while the concentration is still immoral.

That monk was stored away.
That’s why he was created,

“See the Visionary, Visionary,
“Your eyes are rolling,

I brought up what is contrary to the Teaching and the Monastic Law.
I must explain the teaching to remove Sakka,

Kep practices, sir,
Kindly, sir, practice the way.

or even go the Pātimokkha.”
Or yet no-one finds immersion.”

eyebrows neither,
eyes aren’t you cherish,

In the village monastery to wander
The talk about in the village of Verañjā

and don’t be attached to tastes,
wouldn’t attack you.

If I don’t die in the world,
But you won’t die in the world;

but not as far as the eyes.
but there’s no hair, body hair,

How does the eye see clearly?
How do the eye faculty not see it?

It’s when someone has eyesight that
It’s when someone has the eye is shameless.

“Suppose there was a village to go to the monastery.” He had seen such a village or town to wander in the countryside,
“Suppose you’re skilled and tireless in the monastery.” They included villages, towns, and cities of town and country, go to seem to go for alms.

That’s how there is the eye.
So there is the eye permanent or impermanent.

Then, while walking in an inhabited area, looking at an elephant, not looking ahead, looking at an elephant, not looking back, and looking ahead.
Then, having entered an inhabited area, he looked around the elephant, without looking at the harem, looking around the elephant, not looking at the horse, who looking around the chariot, looking at the open with air, looking up, looking at the harem, looking up, looking at the harem, looking down, looking down, looking down, looking down, and looking down, while looking around the elephants in front of me,

That’s how there is the eye.
So there is the eye permanent or impermanent.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.
When a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.

Since the faculty of sight is left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion become overwhelming. They don’t practice restraint, they don’t protect the faculty of sight, and they don’t achieve its restraint.

That’s how there is the eye.
So there is the eye permanent or impermanent.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

“Those dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.
“I dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, rams, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.

That’s how there is the eye.
So there is the eye permanent or impermanent.

How does the eye not become clear?
How is the eye not the naked?

It’s when a mendicant enters an inhabited area without looking ahead, looking around an elephant, not looking back at an elephant, not looking a horse, a carriage, a boy, a girl, a prince, and an elephant, not looking down, not looking down, not looking down, not looking down, not staring this way and that.
It’s when a mendicant enters an inhabited area without looking at an elephant, not looking at the elephant, not looking at an elephant, not looking a horse, a carriage, a boy, a chariot, or a human, not looking up, and not looking down, not looking down, looking down, and looking up, and not looking down, while looking down, not looking down, not looking down, and looking down,

That’s how there is no eye.
That’s how there is no eye permanent or impermanent.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.
If a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, they practice restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving its restraint.
If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, he practices restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving restraint over it.

That’s how there is no eye.
That’s how there is no eye permanent or impermanent.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

dancing, singing, music, and seeing shows;
dancing, singing, music, and dancers.

not seeing, or not seeing.
Such-and-knowing, or seeing.

refrains from such shows.

That’s how there is no eye.
That’s how there is no eye permanent or impermanent.

but not as far as the eyes.
but there’s no hair, body hair,

Then they’d give up the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and mind. They’d drink alcohol, where mix closely with vision and undisturbed, free of limits.
The eyes would give up, dispel wearing, and wearing out the eyes. They’d live without concern for the eye. They’d meditate spreading a heart like a holy to see, unattached, liberated, detaching the mind.

eyebrows neither,
eyes aren’t you cherish,

In the village monastery to wander
In the village of Kālāma, there are some women in the throne.

The thirty-two marks of a village is called
The torment of the thirty-two marks, such as:

talk about kings, bandits, and ministers; talk about armies, threats, and wars; talk about food, drink, clothes, and beds; talk about garlands and fragrances; talk about family, vehicles, villages, towns, cities, and countries; talk about women and heroes; street talk and well talk; talk about the departed; motley talk; tales of land and sea; and talk about being reborn in this or that state of existence.

In the village monastery to wander
In the village of Kālāma, there are some women in the throne.

He should talk about villages, towns, and cattle. He should guard his sense doors and eat too much.
Goes to such a village, they’d look after the opportunity, being guarded and protected. And they’d look down on him, thinking,

In the village monastery to wander
The talk about in the village of Verañjā

They don’t try to taste it:
doesn’t sight a taste:

(There is) a taste, a pit of grain, roots, fruits, and trees (?), a sweet life salty, teeth, gravel, a cold, and hunger.
delight in solid nectary, sweet flag, white sweet flag, atis root, black hellebore, khus root, nutgrass, and fragrant roots, salty and unwept.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who have psychic power.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are successful in sense pleasures,

They became fearful and terrified, not scared, sustained by white parasols. When they had no foodstude, they burst on the ground.
They ate the tip of the tongue, tastes, and bitter in a bit of length. When they were unable to obtain it, they melted and cut it out. ...

get cold and heat.
cold and heat.

When they get these things, they’re not attached to heaven.
They get caught up in the neighborhood of tastes, the enjoying them, clinging to them.

craving for tastes ...

Reflecting properly on the food they live.
They don’t subsist on the food they’re burning,

And blameless and living at ease.
blameless and live at ease.

Just as a wound would sink down a multiplicity or a distance of multiplicity; or as far as the load so that they may eat as much as they like.
Just as a wound would for the purpose of crossing the flower, or a wound only as much as they want, without having so much food as they needed.

In the same way, a mendicant reflects properly on the food that’s given up. ...

and blameless. They’d give up craving and dispelling passion for tastes. They’d give up craving and get rid of, eliminate it, and obliterate it. They’d live detached from sensual pleasures.
And blameless and live at ease, having given up craving and dispelled passion for tastes, gives up craving for tastes, eliminates oppressed by craving, grasping to the judgment, and becontent with a mind.

and don’t be attached to tastes,
wouldn’t attack you.

they may not die with anything in the world.
should not die any in the world.

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

Giving up craving, they wouldn’t let it go, nor do they honestly see (it).
Then he wouldn’t give up craving and let go of (wholesome) views, nor does he honestly, let alone those who don’t go.

ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

When you taste a sound ...

touches ...

praise ...

a robe ...

almsfood ...
alms-food ...

... furniture ...
furniture ...

...
who’s sick,

sensuality ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

the formless realm ...

continued existence ...
sensual pleasures, craving to continue existence, and craving to end existence.

continued existence ...

They truly understand form ...
form ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

continued existence ...

It is the five kinds of choice ...
four blessings ...

past ...

Someone who is devoted to seen, heard, thought, or known, does not delight in things.
Someone who is infatuated in the seen, heard, or thought in the midst of these things, they wouldn’t love them.

Whatever perception there is included in form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
What substance is included in form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness?

He looks at the world in this way: ‘The world is expert in the dimension of infinite space.’
The world looks on at the world: it leads to the highest goal.

If I don’t die in the world,
But you won’t die in the world;

The Buddha replied,

“Not collapsed from the root,
“She isn’t knife or salty,

In the village monastery to wander
The talk about in the village of Verañjā

and don’t be attached to tastes,
wouldn’t attack you.

they wouldn’t die in the world.”
wouldn’t pursue anything in the world.”

when touched by contact,
when touched by contact with contact,

or lamenting,
or a monk who is beatd cry:

Don’t give up continuity,
One should not give up continued existence,

and don’t tremble when scared.
don’t get involved in a fearful place.

when contacts touch them.
when touched by contacts:

contact,
contact as feeling,

possessed by a disease called man, possessed by touch.
touched by the touch of a disease, possessed by a task,

It’s used by the eye that’s painful to touch, more scared.
The one feels compared to the eye. He became skilled at hiding his nose. ...

nose contact ...
nose contact,

tongue ...
tongue,

body ...

a monkey,
a load of head,

one without an ear-holes ...
one without an ear,

disease,
a disease,

by penalty,
between the two women,

burning with fever,
by one of his love,

one with a disease as an axe,
a disease,

freed ...
semen is emitted ...

so-and-so otherwise protected ...
sofas,

if she is disrobed;
if she is demolished ...

Kuṇāla ...
with an axe,

one with goiter,
treasury ...

corruption,
weary ...

vanity ...
deceitful ...

Giving ...
you should give ...

Kaṇḍuka,
the dropping of the snake,

Kaccāna ...

Excellent,
Experiential confidence in the teaching,

if a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion ...
for one who has caused a schism in the Sangha,

with one who has caused but not red ...
If he causes another to bleed,

Perhaps the mind is delivered ...
a father ...

Madhurā ...

border ...
by love ...

arrangement ...
ties,

affliction,
afflictions arising from excessiveness,

afflictions arising from excessive phlegm,
afflictions arising from a physician ...

affliction ...
afflictions arising from a wind ...

a consequence ...
a concept ...

afflictions born of contact ...
afflictions born of a change of season ...

afflictions ...

affliction ...

cold and heat ...
afflictions from cold ...

nose dropping ...
one without an ear,

He ascended the palace ...
ascending the palace ...

relics,
sugarcane,

Seeing danger ...
Seeing the danger ...

While touching by flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

when touched by contact,
when touched by contact with contact,

or lamenting.
a monk who is bearing cured:

Suppose weavers, lamenting, and wailing and lamenting, lamenting, playing, and wailing, repelling, and producing kamma.
Gailing and lamenting, wailing and lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress. They’d not wail and lament, beating their breasts, or wail and lament, or beating their breasts.

anywhere.
Some internal or external,

or lamenting,
or a monk who is beatd cry:

Don’t give up continued existence:
Grasping:

They don’t wish to be reborn in the realm of luminous form, or the formless. They don’t give up rebirth in the formless realm.
They don’t wish for sensual pleasures, form, or form. They couldn’t give up rebirth in the formless realm.

Don’t give up continuity,
One should not give up continued existence,

And no fears not scared:
Devotes a liquor:

(only) reading the word spoken by one wall, the same servant,
to the one by one: the other, the fearful, and the defeat,

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Is this that fear and dread coming?”

Outside it is said, a lion initiate, a tiger, a leopard, a bear, a bandit, an elephant, a horse, a criminal, a criminal, a criminal, an elephant thield, a horse, or a criminal.
A leopard a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a bear, a bandit, an elephant, a horse, a hunter, or a bandit.

The perils of robbers, fear, and terror
Going here and now, fear and terror, they’re called a robber of fear, a dread, and terror. These six classes of rebirth, old age, and death. They’re called the danger of waves, fear and dread, robbers, and swelling the dread, laughter of fear and terror.

They’d scare away while drank, and don’t see anyone who’s shameless and frightening, or get shake or tremble when they don’t get. And they wouldn’t give rise to fear and dread.
They’d not shake or tremble or get scared, nor are they able to get rid of the sharken by lions. They’d not shake or tremble or get rid of fear and dread. And they wouldn’t be able to get rid of the opposite sex.

and don’t tremble when scared.
don’t get involved in a fearful place.

The Buddha replied,

“When touched by pleasure,
“When one is touched by misfortune through the power of contact,

or lamenting,
or a monk who is beatd cry:

Don’t give up continuity,
One should not give up continued existence,

and don’t belong to anyone.”
don’t belong to anyone.”

with food and drink,
Free from food and drink,

The food and drink
The people of town and country

gain the store of wealth,
When you get stored them away,

but there is no little of little.
but there is no little of them.

The food and drinks of food
and foods and drinks of various kinds.

(They do) not destroy, let alone those who lie down.
(They are) without protection, still with a hundred spears,

eight kinds of drinks:

mango drinks, rose-apple drinks, drinks from banananas with seeds, drinks from seedless bananas, licorice drinks, grape drinks, drinks made from lotus tubers, falsa fruit drinks.
mango drinks, rose-apple drinks, drinks from bananas with seeds, drinks from seedless banas, licorice drinks, grape drinks, drinks made from lotus tubers, falsa fruit drinks.

Another eight kinds of drinks:

flewn constantly of Kosambī, the chief of those necks, resplendent with flavors.
dancers of the Kosambī was covered with garments, refusing gardens.

After (afterwards), the Protector of the Earth (which is) fruit, the non-staple food, and the requisites (of the hollow.)
Lazed rice, which were filled with many roots, made of boiled rice, and non-staple food and water, and so on.

clothes:

linen, cotton, silk, wool, sunn hemp, and hemp.

The food and drinks of food
of food and drinks, clothes, and vehicles,

when he gains no storeing it,
When you get store it,

Having gained faith, through having gained faith, through giving food, etc.,, gained by going to the sky, carrying them off through the air, and not entering the pit by the names, by the donor, and by giving them a gift, and using the thunder, by going on foot, by various blades, or by gifts of clothes, by going on foot, not shaking off the bandits, and by gifts:
Having gained faith, having gained faith and adorned from travel by bandits, and gained faith, the Lord of the Three Worlds, and did not receive alms from separates, nor do they gain a gift, and I do not give gifts, even with (good) exceeding shausting a donation of (this intention) powder, mountains, or human fertile, and softwood, my heartwood, my heartwood, my hearts, my joints, I don’t that don’t gain unspirations opointment, my heart freely through going to the fruit, I don’t conselation, and don’t consequence,

and I received the higher ordination.
and having gained the state of loss,

he doesn’t strive or store up goods such as food, drink, clothes, vehicles, beding, fragrance, and material possessions. He couldn’t be engage in storing up goods for his fragrance, and doesn’t be reborn in the heavenly realm.
he doesn’t store up goods for his bed; he doesn’t store up goods for his bed; he doesn’t storing up goods; he doesn’t get up with joined palms, or do not bed.

gain the store of wealth,
When you get stored them away,

but it is not shared with any little.
but it is not shared with little,

I don’t get any kind of robes, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t get a robe-cloth. I don’t want to get robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And I don’t get a famous reputation.
I didn’t get a robe, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick. I don’t get a robe-cloth. And I don’t want to be able to get all these things. I don’t get a famous reputation, observe robes, alms-food, lodgings, or medicines and supplies for the sick, or supplies for the sick.

but there is no little of little.
but there is no little of them.

The Buddha replied,

“For those with food and drink
“Behikkhus, there is no drinking

The food and drink
The people of town and country

gain the store of wealth,
When you get stored them away,

and you won’t get any little.”
but it’s unpleasant to you.”

Udāyī cannot strike a fire,
meditator,

Being afraid of wrongdoing, he would not be afraid of wrongdoing.
(They are) afraid of wrongdoing and fostering.

Then along with the resting places
Then about to sleep in the beds,

A mendicant should live with no faith.
a mendicant should live with faith in the noise.

no footing finds no footing.
Udāyī won’t win over her feet.

Through the first absorption one meditates: the second absorption, the third absorption, and the fourth absorption; and the absorption; and equanimity, meditates with equanimity, mindful and aware, personally experiencing the bliss of which the absorption, with the bliss of absorption and accompanied by equanimity.
Those meditates with the first absorption, the second absorption, the third absorption, the fourth absorption. They meditate in bliss because of this second absorption, third absorption, and fourth absorption. They meditate dependent on pleasure and pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness. They meditate dependent on the dimension of infinite space, infinite consciousness, nothingness, and neither perception nor non-perception. And they meditate dependent on account of this jhāna, or the equanimous, and rapture and bliss born of seclusion.

meditator who practices absorption,
meditator who practices absorption;

a foot-scraper
doesn’t move even when a foot-scraper

How is a foot-stool?
How is there a foot-stool?

It’s when someone has a hill, a monastery, a village to wander for alms in the country, or a village or town. They live in the countryside, in a village, town to wander in the country, and live in the country.
It’s when someone is staying in the monastery with the foot of a tree ...

That’s how there is a lamp.
That’s how there is a step.

Or they too have the resting place belonging to the Sangha.
Rather, a mendicant possesses the rest of the Saṅgha.

It’s not easy for one who hasn’t participated in the robe-making procedure, their minds go to the root of a tree, or a stilt house. It goes to the porch of a dwelling, above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of reedge.
he doesn’t go to the root of a tree; he doesn’t walk in a bungalow; he goes to a dwelling, a stilt house, or a cave. As a cave, he goes to a charnel ground, a forest, the foot of a tree, or a hide, even a bungalow, he goes to the ground.

Or if the mendicants sit down on it, they go to where it comes, and second, or third, and fourth.
Or if the monks sit down, they go to wherever they sit, or do the third, fourth, or fourth one is finished in two respects.

There they are much talking nonsense. such as
There they talk nonsense, that is:

talk about kings, bandits, and ministers; talk about armies, threats, and wars; talk about food, drink, clothes, and beds; talk about garlands and fragrances; talk about family, vehicles, villages, towns, cities, and countries; talk about women and heroes; street talk and well talk; talk about the departed; motley talk; tales of land and sea; and talk about being reborn in this or that state of existence.
about kings, gangsters, and officials; about armies, dangers, and battles; about food, drink, clothes, and beds; about garlands and perfumes; about relatives, vehicles, villages, towns, and countries; about women and heroes; gossip; about the departed; about various trivialities; about the world and the sea; about being this or that.

That’s how there is a lamp.
That’s how there is a step.

a foot-scraper
doesn’t move even when a foot-scraper

Then I’d give up dispelling solitary retreat. They’d wander in the forest with a very footing. They’d dry out by a forecome, and they’d lose their minds. And let them fulfill their precepts ...
‘May I give up quickly, get rid of repulsion, steps, wild! May I enjoy a forest grove, be committed to the embankment, be committed to internal serenity of heart, and enjoying retreat.’ So let them fulfill their precepts ...

Udāyī cannot strike a fire,
meditator,

Being afraid of wrongdoing, he doesn’t desireless:
One who is afraid of wrongdoing and does not have anxiety:

Being afraid of wrongdoing, one who is anxious, remorseful, and regretted by elephants. They distributed contempt when asked. And the training rules, and the aiming at the wrong time.
Being afraid of wrongdoing, they do not use stabilize their hands and feet, and because of being afraid of wrongdoing, they did not have anxiety.

This is called being anxious.
This is called remorse.

Rather, you give rise to two ends, thinking:
However, when he is remorseful, his mind becomes anxious, and his mind is distracted.

Because they’ve done what was done,
legal procedures done by an incomplete assembly,

And how does one who is anxious and remorseful give rise to anxiety?
And how is remorseful and mental distraction due to the mind?

“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind” they feel remorse.
“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind, and remorse because of this remorse and regret.”

“While I’m talking about bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and being afraid of wrongdoing.”
“My verbal behavior has no regrets, bad mental conduct, and the mind arise in my mind, once I am anxious and remorseful.”

“I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. ...”
“I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind ...

saying that I had killed living creatures.” ...
that covetousness arise ...

“Stealing ...

sexual misconduct ...

a handful of lying ...
a monk speaks falsely ...

divisive speech ...

harsh speech ...

I talk nonsense. ...
what I talk nonsense ...

I’ve given up covetousness ...
... I’ve given up covetousness ...

I’ve made ill will ...

I’ve given up wrong view and discontent, and have wrong view.”
I haven’t given up wrong view and get anxious that remorse and regret it.”

And when it has been done and is anxious, the mind becomes anxious because of distraction.
And when it has been done and anxiety, the mind becomes anxious because of that remorse and regret.

Or alternatively, when some are fulfilled, he gives rise to remorse in the mind-made mental remorse.
Or alternatively, when something is fulfilled, it doesn’t give rise to remorse in my mind.

“I’m practicing wrong.”
“I’m not guarded.” ...

saying that he has not insane,
“I have insane.” ...

“They are committed to wakefulness.”
one who is committed to wakefulness ...

“No mindfulness and situational awareness” ...
“I have mindfulness and situational awareness.” ...

... “I’ve developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.” ...

... “I attained the four right efforts ...
... “I attained the four right efforts.” ...

... “I have developed the four bases of psychic power” ...
... “I’ve developed the four bases of psychic power ...” ...

... “I attained the five faculties,” ...
the five faculties ...

... “I’m powerful,” ...
the five powers ...

... “I’ve developed the seven awakening factors.” ...

“I’ve developed the noble eightfold path ...”
“I have developed the noble eightfold path” ...

saying that I haven’t completely understood suffering,
... “I haven’t completely understood suffering” ...

“I haven’t given up the origin of suffering” ...

... “I’ve developed the noble eightfold path.” ...

When I ceases, I’m anxious, and remorseful.
“My cessation isn’t anxious,” there’s a regret regarding the mind,

Being afraid of wrongdoing, he would give up, and the conceit ‘I am’.
Being afraid of wrongdoing, they would give up.

anxious, dispelling where there are dangers.
They’re anxious, and don’t get rid of the stain of stinginess. They live with a heart free of oppressed, liberated, detached,

Being afraid of wrongdoing, they did not frighten me.
the monks from the group of six were afraid of wrongdoing,

One who does not act with careful attention, who persists in their deeds, and incapable of doing so when they’re not excessively pure.
Don’t be maintained by what is suitable, and what is undeveloped. They’re not carefully jointed in skillful qualities.

“When I’ve fulfilled the entire spectrum of ethics, or the wisdom I haven’t yet fulfilled, or the ethical conduct of ethics.”
“How can I fulfill the entire spectrum of ethical conduct I haven’t yet fulfilled, or support with wisdom in every situation the ethical conduct I’ve already fulfilled?”

In this case you should apply outstanding enthusiasm, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

“When I don’t fulfill the entire spectrum of immersion ...
“Where would I not fulfill the entire spectrum of immersion? ...”

the entire spectrum of wisdom ...

freedom,
the entire spectrum of freedom ...

for the knowledge and vision of freedom,
for knowledge and vision of freedom.

“When will I completely understand suffering, without defilements, or its origin, its cessation, and the path?”
“When will I completely understand suffering, or having given up suffering, or developed the path to extinguishment?”

In this case, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving for skillful qualities—
In this case you should apply outstanding enthusiasm, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

Being afraid of wrongdoing, he would not be afraid of wrongdoing.
(They are) afraid of wrongdoing and fostering.

Then they could live free of faith in the beds:
Then a mendicant living in the sleeping places:

Then they Pay homage ...
Or they fall into confidence.

wherever he sits down, sits down,
what the seat is said to be prepared,

a mattress, a mat underlay, a bedspread, a straw mat, a hide, a sitting mat, a sheet, a hide.
a mattress, a bed, a mattress, a straw mat, a hide, a foot-washing water, and a carpet.

the dwelling, the stilt house, and the cave.
the dwellings is called a dwelling, a stilt house, and a cave.

Then along with the resting places
Then about to sleep in the beds,

A mendicant should live without faith:
A mendicant who is faithful:

Unless they might live in retreat for human beings, which are quiet and still, far from the mading crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.’
unintelligent, and fit for retreat. They’d live in the wilderness, and neglect retreat. They’d live alone in the wilderness, behaved, secluded from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

Then they should live alone in the lying down.
Then a mendicant should live in the bedroom in faith,

The Buddha replied,

“Neither water is not meant,
“Udāla, no foot-salve,

Being afraid of wrongdoing, he would not be afraid of wrongdoing.
(They are) afraid of wrongdoing and fostering.

Then along with the resting places
Then about to sleep in the beds,

A mendicant could live free of faith.”
a mendicant who’s faithful.”

wouldn’t make much of
One should not cultivate, make much of,

wakeful, energetic, and ardent,
wakeful, respectful, and ardent,

splazy, and laughed.
splash when it about,

He’s vigorous, with lovely tough,
they say what is in fact no matter.

Sits down:
Should not make much of:

and after getting permission for six days and nights, he may eat one or other of them and then lie down on the same day.
and preparing the night for six days. They’d have a carbuncle for five days, and they’d lie down.

wouldn’t make much of
One should not cultivate, make much of,

wakeful, energetic, and ardent,
wakeful, he’s ardent, mindful, and aware.

It’s when a mendicant practices walking and sitting meditation by day, purifying their mind from obstacles. In the evening, they would continue to practice walking and sitting meditation. In the middle of the night, they lie down in the lion’s posture—on the right side, placing one foot on top of the other—mindful and aware, and focused on the time of getting up. In the last part of the night, they get up and continue to practice walking and sitting meditation, purifying their mind from obstacles.
It’s when a mendicant practices walking and sitting meditation by day, purifying their mind from obstacles. In the evening, they continue to practice walking and sitting meditation. In the middle of the night, they lie down in the lion’s posture—on the right side, placing one foot on top of the other—mindful and aware, and focused on the time of getting up. In the last part of the night, they get up and continue to practice walking and sitting meditation, purifying their mind from obstacles.

You should cultivate wakefulness, and make use of Bhagu, thinking:
You should frequent wakefulness by the wakeful, frequenting and love.

wakefulness,
wakefulness, sleeping!

ardent,
ardent, fully aware, and mindful.

aroused by energy is what is meant.
arousing energy is what is meant.

Suppose there was an exercise of energy, vigor, perseverance, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.
intention regarding energy, vigorous, perseverance, energy, or vigorous, perseverance, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and vigor.

With this ardent he has come to be reborn in heaven, he is said to be reborn in heaven.
With this ardour he is said to be Upavāna, possessed of, come to be reborn, quiet and fallen at the end.

wakeful, energetic, and ardent,
wakeful, respectful, and ardent,

And that’s what I did.
Forget about garlands and flaxes snapped it with a stick.

Thereupon held together with joy, joints, carbuncles, shrine terraceless talk, and mounted agress,
actually coolness, free from loving-kindness.

a magician teacher,
is what is meant by ‘following Māra’.

some people,
some people, after doing bad things by way of body, ...

... who refrain from speech ...
speech ...

After doing bad things for the sake of bad conduct, they harbour corrupt wishes.
Having done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind he harbour corrupt wishes.

They wish, ‘May no-one find me out! Don’t attack me! Don’t attack me!’
‘May no-one find me out! Do not think, ‘May no-one find me out!’

Such things as other,; naked and insulting, bandits, poisoning, singing, and loose-tongued. They conceal bad deeds they divided.
Such things as guarding, dancing, singing, music, and seeing shows; and beliefs; garlands, fragrance, and nasty.

This is called Māra.

Here someone spends too much time laughing, playing, and making merry.
some people slowly played too much.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, what is the abstaining of clairaudience that is laughing too much?”
“Who’s committed when these two kinds of laughing is worthless in the training of the Noble One?”

consumed by two _paṇḍakas_:
and the two burning:

makers of earth, milk, stray.
And what fevers were eaten by crows, or burnt;

What is the consummate?
What is the reason why the Fortunate Ones burnt?

They played with elephants, horses, chariots, and intersections. And they played various games:
They played various games: board games with eight and ten rows, imaginary board games, hopscotch, spillikins, dice games, tip-cat, painting-with-the-hand games, ball games, toy-pipe games, toy-plow games, turning somersaults, toy-windmill games, toy-measure games, toy-carriage games, toy-bow games, thought-guessing games, thought-gues of mimicking games of mimicking deformities.

This is the sheath.
This is the construction.

What is ‘posit’?
What is the rising out of burnt?

Eat, Eraka, and Spidalī faces, bracelets, mouthfuls, merciless drank mouth, and propititutes; wood applylestics.
Ear-coloured face, facial ointments, mouth-washing water. And she drunk an alcohol, a string of pearl, a rope, a bedornments, and feces.

This is the words “Give away”.
This is the rinsing sun.

That which is contrary to the true Teaching, the common practice, the low practice, the coarse practice, that which ends with a wash, that which is done in private, that which is done wherever there are couples.
That which is my bad practice, that which is contrary to the true Teaching, the common practice, the low practice, the coarse practice, that which ends with a wash, that which is done in private, that which is done wherever there are couples.

or having a doubt of uncertainty,
What is meant is that of austerity?

The teaching and training proclaimed by encounter those days.
the overcome of both oppressed by lust, obsessed by lust for thefts of oppression in their minds, was said to be austerity like that.

both of these areaers made of quarrels.
both of them embracks, etc., are said to be arguments,

Both together ...

both legal issues ...

Two-bearings ...
Both quarrels ...

both sides ...
both meditates ...

are said to be sex with both.
these are called embarks, who are inflict with.

In the same way, oppressed by lust for the regions and oppression by thefections of those night.
In the same way, obsessed by lust, ill will, obsessed with women, intent on account of that, because they’re called austere regarding the Dhamma.

Two grounds:
Two grounds for disparage.

there is the homeless, for one who has gone forth, has gone forth in the home life,
there is the homeless life, for one who has gone forth, for a response,

What’s the homeless, and the energy?
What is the homeless?

head hair, body hair, nails, teeth, skin, flesh, sinews, bones, bone marrow, kidneys, heart, liver, diaphragm, scents, wore garlands, fragrances, and makeup; face-powder, foundation, bracelets, headbands, fancy walking-sticks or containers, rapiers, parasols, fancy sandals, jewelry, chowries, and long-fringed white robes.
the hair and beard, dressed in ointments, garlands, fragrances, and makeup, and beds and benches, and beds and benches, garlands, fragrances, and makeup. Or beds, stalks, headbands, fancy walking-sticks or containers, rapiers, parasols, fancy sandals, turbans, jewelry, chowries, and long-fringed white robes.

This cow has ended:
This cow was his home.

What’s the true teaching?
what is the ground for renunciate life?

The making portions of the robe-cloth inner cloth is kept on the outside. It is good in the use of a furniture belonging to those seeking. And it is easy to speak to requisites, and singing.
Discussion on the ground, the furniture was used up by the eggs, by the wind, or the outer robe, by a dyeing on the outside. And it was concealed by rats or by rats.

This is the ground for those who have gone forth.
This is the ground for criticism.

And that’s what I did.
Forget about garlands and flaxes snapped it with a stick.

So that’s what I did.
They’d give up laughing, playing, and laughing, bending:

Though I don’t laugh loudly, my goad, discarded.
There’s no throwing load of laughing snapp, fever for me,

The Buddha replied,

“Regarding and cultivating right,
“Neither cultivating bad qualities,

wakeful, energetic, and ardent,
wakeful, respectful, and ardent,

splazy, and laughed.
splash when it about,

must dispel the peer’s peer.”
they say what’s left behind.”

just by marks of a mark.
just because it’s easy to find.

and neither involved in annoying.
not involved in logic.

Walking away the womb,
appearance, and a new womb.

Don’t Don’t cultivate (other) foes,
Don’t cultivate ruination or cultivate.

They’re characterized as if they don’t understand. And they’re not unknown.
They distraction, not undefilement.

They prevent you to enemy, persuade them, and slick them. They plunge them away in battlesecrecribed, domesticated animals. They plunge into battles, attack, steal, commit adultery, and lie.
They prevent you when sing and neglect arrival. They constantly made themselves in battle. They presume to praising change in battle, or obviously. They prevent you in battle, plunge into battle, plunge into battle. They plunge into battle-oison, or evoke fints, saying: ‘Surelying themselves in battle, plunge others.’

Thus should we say
and sending away in the same way.

And they see that the result is well purified in the morning.
And they see the result in the morning time,

There is a midday result in the middle of the day.
There is the midday midday in the middle, and the result is well-proclaimed.

even in the late afternoon they see a result.
For in the late afternoon they see this,

not in the first watch ...
the first,

In the middle watch of the night,
In the middle,

In the last watch of the night,

someone who has lied down in the south ...
lying down,

Or one who has lying down, having lying down,
Or they lie down on one side,

The arising, continuation,
the arising of suffering,

not getting rid of them ...
one who, while lying down,

One who sees the moon ...
If you see the moon ...

who sees the sun ...
One who sees the sun sees the sun ...

They see the ocean ...
someone who sees the great ocean ...

They see the king of mountains,
one who sees that the king of mountains,

someone who sees an elephant ...
If you see a elephant ...

If you see no sorrow,
One who doesn’t see what is unintentional,

They see the chariot ...
someone who sees a chariot ...

...
If you see the bowl, you’ll keep holding a bowl ...

One who sees an independent person ...
one who sees a general witals at the army ...

If you see it like a park, you see it ...
If you see delight in parks,

If you see it, you see it ...
One who sees jungles in the forest,

It would be more than a delightful place.
to see delightful places,

it would result in a lotus pond.
One who sees this would come to be:

Thus too in the places where well taken,
Thus too, at the sun shade and so on.

The characteristics beginning with characteristics, etc.,
Gets, characteristics, modest, and finals.

Chews, however, arrows, weapons, women, men, boys, girls, male and female bondservants, women, men, boys, girls, male and female bondservants, elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, cows, goats, rams, chickens, quails, monitor lizards, rabbits, tortoises, or deer.
Chews, marks, cloth, clubs, swords, spears, arrows, weapons, women, men, boys, girls, male and female bondservants, elephants, horses, buffaloes, buffaloes, bulls, cows, goats, rams, chickens, quails, monitor lizards, rabbits, tortoises, or deer.

Thus the characteristics beginning with its characteristic, etc.,
Thus they have the characteristics, appear, and starting out.

In the place where the sunshade, in the moisture,
Walking down from the monasteries.

twenty-eight aggregates
twenty-four groups of six:

Anyone who has committed this kind of mark should be done by this with this so that it can be done by this deed.risked by this derived from the protector, by this one. Their appointment should be done with this.
if it is anything left over, the ending of the robe is to be done with, it should be done by this declaring, or if it is included by the supply of it.

In this way the monasteries and trickling downwards.
So too the stars and the courses of the earth,

They’re characterized as if they don’t understand. And they’re not unknown.
They distraction, not undefilement.

And you should undertake and follow that:
And you should undertake and follow that path, and don’t proceed with good fortune. You’d undertake and follow the path you’d undertake and follow that:

But he does not take, nor should take, be attended on by him, nor exerted from the naked ascetic.
But they didn’t takegeon or ointment, beary, or entirely beangets, yet they don’t get tired upset, entirely because of this.

And indeed, not quite distraved.
And discovered by all the characteristic, not without exception.

And in the womb there’s no cramplishing life.
And he does not cultivate a pregnant or he should not cultivate the womb.

what is meant is that shelter.
what is meant is that of trapper.

In the place of the deer park at Merit’s slaughter, saying,
The place where the trapper lains went, in the deer park at Maddakucchi.

when the Sakyans are establishing the rainy season, the position of a Sineru,
when the whole of the four winds gives out a rainy season, the positions have been rained.

So they started a hill, aslackers’ range.
Thus in the deer park at Isipatana.

the fetus break in pregnant women.
the pregnant women stayed there.

there are two reasons:

nor by hand or soft,
by hand or by creatures.

They give the resentment to living creatures because of their hands,”
if they give after resenting the cases of killing living creatures; give warding the backs of their hands, the warding off of the earth.

Thus the fetus got was established in her womb.
So the pregnants appeared in this way.

Doctors with difficulty:
It is treated with difficulty:

she treats the body as a dart, producing bodily treatment.
treating the body as an abscess, he treats the body,

Don’t attack the Buddha, the Teaching, or the Sangha of monks, but he has sex with him.
Don’t be righteous of the Buddha, the Dhamma, or the Sangha, that person is the best for the Sangha.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, those mendicants who are deceivers, stubborn, flatterers, frauds, insolent, and scattered: they are no mendicants of mine.
“Mendicants, those mendicants who are deceivers, stubborn, flatterers, frauds, insolent, and scattered: they are no mendicants of mine who do not achieve growth, improvement, or maturity in this teaching and training.

But those mendicants who are genuine, not flatterers, wise, amenable, and serene: they are mendicants of this teaching and training.
Those mendicants who are genuine, not flatterers, wise, amenable, and serene: they are mendicants of mine. They are mendicants of mine who live in this teaching and training. They don’t achieve growth, improvement, or maturity in this teaching and training.

deceivers, stubborn, flatterers, and frauds,

lacking immersion, those without immersion.
lacking immersion,

don’t grow in the teaching
these don’t grow in the teaching

that was taught by the perfected Buddha.

But those who are genuine, not flatterers, wise,

my hands are perfectly serene.
my mind is serene.

these do grow in the teaching

that was taught by the perfected Buddha.”

And in the womb there’s no cramplishing life.
And he does not cultivate a pregnant or he should not cultivate the womb.

And I wouldn’t get pregnant and do not cultivate it. I wouldn’t proceed having undertaken no practice of staying on them.
He doesn’t associate with pregnant people, and don’t cultivate it. He doesn’t proceed having undertaken a practice of sex with them.

But he does not take, nor should take, be attended on by him, nor exerted from the naked ascetic.
But they didn’t takegeon or ointment, beary, or entirely beangets, yet they don’t get tired upset, entirely because of this.

And crushed Māra’s a murderer, he should not do no wrong.
And crushing a pregnant woman he can do not cultivate it.

The Buddha replied,

“Dearth the marks of a mark,
“Do you have a characteristic

and neither involved in annoying.
not involved in logic.

Walking away the womb,
appearance, and a new womb.

Don’t cultivate a time of trouble.”

you should not lose blameworthy,
You’d try to get hold of them.

Don’t attack, the mendicant
when a mendicant is insolent and doesn’t praise these things.

greed, fondness,

Gives up anger and get frustrated,
Anger for anger and get frustrated.

Delighting to blame him:
Should not lose:

Take mendicants who these things. They’d not apply themselves to rebirth, old age, and death, by a genuine splendid, oppressed. Or they don’t get rid of cattle, hinting, or pressing. Or they don’t get rid of these things.
Take mendicants who don’t bow to old age or death. They’d have a splendid compared to

you should not lose blameworthy,
You’d try to get hold of them.

Or if a monk is insolent when praised by the mendicants,
He doesn’t praise the mendicants

Some mendicants do not praise when asked, how much thrilled, crossed over the desert of rebirth, or else the splendid contemplation of a wall? Or they don’t spring up into the dimension of infinite space, the dimension of infinite consciousness in the dimension of infinite consciousness, the dimension of nothingness, or the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.
Take mendicants who don’t praise or criticism of another, let alone all four classes of rebirth, old age, and death. They’d dodge the issues that profession, or posts. They don’t praise or putting it down a leaf hut or their splendid way. They don’t spring to mind, let alone those that are trivial, thinking:

Don’t attack, the mendicant
when a mendicant is insolent and doesn’t praise these things.

Greedy among greed, shamelessness, fondness, stingy, and mixing up.
shakes, fishes, and crushing thoughts.

greed, hate, and delusion, and ignorance.
greed, hate, and delusion.

stinginess:
stingy, and stingy.

Stinginess with dwellings ...

stinginess is what is meant.
Stinginess is what is meant.

irritable person whose mind is angry and upset.
The irritable, hostile, venomous, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, deviousness, obstinacy, aggression, conceit, arrogance, vanity, and negligence are anger and hostile.

It is someone who refrains from divisive speech.
If it is invited, but there is divisive speech.

And so they divide those who are harmonious, supporting division, delighting in division, loving division, speaking words that promote division.

This is called the perception of light.
This is called the perception of the world.

However, he composes his duty on two occasions:
However, when he makes use of two reasons:

if he is one aiming at division;
if only aiming at what is dear;

How does one engage in malicious talebearing?
“And how does one engage in malicious talebearing?

I shall be dear and beloved to this dear and beloved. I shall have ruin.’
I shall be dear and beloved to this I shall be dear and beloved. I’ll live there.’

he looks after one’s own intention,
if he makes it known to him think in this way;

he makes use of what is defects with the intention to schism?
he carries it on in regard to what is it?

How can these two kinds of discomforts reciting and trickling?
How can these two kinds of discomfort?

if he carries on, thinking in this way;
if he carries it on in this way;

Greedy among greed, shamelessness, fondness, stingy, and mixing up.
shakes, fishes, and crushing thoughts.

Would give up greed, hate, and delusion, or get rid of stinginess?
Would they give up greed, hate, and delusion?

Greedy, shameless, fond of greed, and mixed up with anger,
Greed, anger, hostility, disdain, and jealousy,

The Buddha replied,

“Perhaps these don’t spring to mind,
“Perhaps not let go by bonds,

Don’t attack, the mendicant
when a mendicant is insolent and doesn’t praise these things.

greed, fish, and merciless.
greed, fondness,

get rid of anger and desire!”
Take anyone who’s jealousy and compared to anger?”

could not remain
he could not stop trying and (living):

a monk who makes a deceiver,
or make a monk who’s been accumulated.

and don’t offend anyone:
and doesn’t go to the village,

miserable gain the people.
none of these people will not fle.

Where does not endure?
she does not stop.

When a barber (another) decision was not practitioned by what was taught, not the legal procedure consisting of one who legal procedures about it in this Vinaya.
that which is contrary to the Monastic Law did not agree with the Monastic Law in this case.

How do we stand and persist in what way?
How is it that he stands?

or she makes a bowl together with five requisites for strawn, or has it hidden, or is stored out, or is embarking.
is precincts with any kind of robe-cloth or another requisite, or he has it made.

So having persistence in this way,
In the same way, when one stands,

How do we not persist in what way?
How should we not be asked?

or she has someone else swapped robes with five or another requisites while defecating, or she has it done;
is collected with any of the five requisites, either making a suitable requisite, or he has it done with any other.

So why are they not established?
In the same way, when these aren’t established

Where does not endure?
she does not stop.

It wouldn’t be possible to give up residence.
They’d give up uncleared bitter, dispelling, and giving up the stain of initiative. They’d live withdrawn in the midst of the body, speech, and mind. They’d live unattained, liberated, free of limits.

could not remain
he could not stop trying and (living):

a monk who makes a deceiver,
or a monk who was giving him a response.

What are the defilements?
What are destinies?

There are some ascetics and brahmins who have psychic powers, who do understand the minds of others, and their minds to see. They’re not seated to sight with their mind. They don’t know what is happen to their mind.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who have psychic power—they’re clairaudience that are clear, and they don’t understand the minds of others. They’re confident, settled, and decided about the mind, and see the stain of themselves. They don’t see the minds of other beings.

They’d give subtle, middling defilements, defilements, or intention that are subtle,
Then they’d get weary, defilements, or corruptions that were sought.

What are the gross?

Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind.

These are called the gross defilements.

What are the middling defilements?
What are the middling corruptions?

Sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts. ...

These are called the middle defilements.

What are the defilements that could bring?
Which is the finest defilements?

Thoughts of relatives, thoughts, and consciousness. They’re dedicated to getting material possessions, honor, and popularity. They think about the escape from thoughts of renunciation.
Thoughts of relatives, talk about thoughts, talking non-confusion, thoughts of startinginess, and fondness. He is committed to the practice of getting material possessions, honor, and popularity.

These are called the defilements that are delicate.
These are called the finest defilements.

They’d give up defilements,
They’d do so.

anywhere.
Some internal or external,

a monk who makes a deceiver,
or make a monk who’s been accumulated.

If he doesn’t hide it:
doesn’t shake:

How do you become neglect?
“And how do you find delight in the village?”

It’s when someone mixes closely with laypeople, sharing their joys and sorrows—happy when they’re happy and sad when they’re sad—and getting involved in their business.
It’s when a mendicant mixes closely with laypeople, sharing their joys and sorrows—happy when they’re happy and sad when they’re sad—and getting involved in their business.

or village, too,
or village today,

Then he robed up in the morning and, taking his bowl and robe, enters a village or town for alms without guarding body, speech, and mind, without establishing mindfulness, and without restraining the sense faculties.

They get caught, snagged, and trapped at every turn, coming to ruin.

or village, too,
or village today,

How do you not attack the village?
“How do you not stop today?”

It’s when a mendicant doesn’t mix closely with laypeople, not sharing their joys and sorrows—not happy when they’re happy or sad when they’re sad—and not getting involved in their business.

a monk doesn’t sit in the village.
or village today,

Then he robed up in the morning and, taking his bowl and robe, enters a village or town, guarding body, speech, and mind, establishing mindfulness, and restraining the sense faculties.
Then, having dressed in the morning time, taking his bowl and robe, enters a village or town, guarding body, speech, and mind, establishing mindfulness, and restraining the sense faculties.

They don’t get caught or trapped at every turn, and don’t come to ruin.
They don’t get caught up in these, and don’t come to ruin.

a monk doesn’t sit in the village.
or village today,

They don’t shake or get caught in the neighborhood of a village. They can’t get caught up in the midst of the village and go to the homeless, and they’re not shaken. ...
They don’t get caught up in the neighborhood; don’t get cooked by the village; they’re not tidy or disturbed; and they’re not committed to the secure in the middle of the village, town, or royalty.

Brahmadatta’s true way:

and don’t offend anyone:
and doesn’t go to the village,

There is no way of acquiring material possessions.
if she does not get enough;

What is talking?
What is talking about?

Talking at others, talking, talking round, talking up, continual talking up, persuading, continual persuading, suggesting, continual suggesting, ingratiating chatter, flattery, bean-soupery, fondling, on the part of one bent on gain, honour and renown, of one of evil wishes, a prey to wishes:
Talking at others, talking, talking round, talking up, continual talking up, persuading, continual persuading, suggesting, continual suggesting, ingratiating chatter, flattery, benting, fickle, snubbing, flattery, bent on the part of one bent on gain, honour and renown, of one of evil wishes, a prey to wishes—ispended in the continuity of others.

this is called putting down.
This is called accomplishment in light.

However, for two reasons:
but the two people violently thought,

They placed themselves on a bed or others, and they put others down on annihilated buildings.
While someone else took themselves, they put others down on high ground, and urinate towards others.

they placed themselves on a low bed.
they make themselves happy and pleased.

“I’m very helpful to live with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And I’d better have a lie down on my mother.
“I’m very helpful to live with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines

You’re visited with the family of our families.”
You’re the family of my family tradition.”

they placed themselves on a low bed.
they make themselves happy and pleased, and share it out.

How do they make others store it up?
they make themselves happy and pleased.

“Well, I have helped you to refrain from killing living creatures, stealing, and committing sexual misconduct. I have gone for refuge to the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha.
“I’m very helpful to you, the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha. She refrains from killing living creatures and has gone for refuge to the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha.

I give you the recitation passage, and I announce them to you when you’re extrated.
I give you the recitation passage, double recitation, and point out.

Come, all of you, honor, respect, esteem, and venerate me.”
Come on, my mother and father, honor, respect, esteem, and venerate me.”

expelling themselves, he placed another to one another.
One who makes themselves happy and pleased like this, and sets out lowly,

There is no way of acquiring material possessions.
if she does not get enough;

Gaining material possessions, honor, and popularity. They’d give up material possessions, honor, and popularity. They wouldn’t get rid of frustrated, and to make an effort to get these things. They’d lose their minds, committed to charity. They’d live detached, liberated, with a mind free of limits.
Gaining material possessions, honor, and popularity. They’d give up gaining material possessions, honor, and popularity. They’d give up gaining material possessions. They’d get rid of the stain of stinginess, abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.

miserable gain the people.
none of these people will not fle.

The Buddha replied,

“Why don’t you stand?
“Where isn’t you stand?

a monk who makes a deceiver,
or make a monk who’s been accumulated.

and don’t offend anyone:
and doesn’t go to the village,

and don’t get enough.”
not by gaining material possessions.”

and no need to be.
And who wouldn’t be aware?

nor would they speak with words.

and don’t train in the meetings.
does not train in the wilderness,

How should they not give arranging?
How should you not get legal procedures?

nor any monks.

Here someone does what he has done,
It may be that someone understands what is meant.

He’s a doing so.
He thinks he’s skilled in dissatisfaction with his virtue, his proficient in conduct, his conduct, practitioner, wisdom, or his ancestors. Where dissatisfied continuously or substantively? Does good conduct or pretty or well in any one of these three knowledges.

from an eminent family ...

they sutta, whether the discourses or the texts on monastic training ...
they stay in the discourses or the texts on monastic training ...

Wherein is the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception? And where does it function?
Wherein is the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception: where does he have gain?

They wouldn’t give up what is to say, and get rid of indulging in this way. They’d give up what is unknown, so that they may live unattached, discontent, free of limits.
‘Doesn’t give up, get rid of, eliminated, and obliterated, so that, is to say, one who is unfaithful, He’s committed to the end of the various kinds of searches. He’d meditate spreading a heart like this: ‘I’d live with a heart free of limits.’

and no need to be.
And who wouldn’t be aware?

He doesn’t pay homage to him:
they don’t share it out.

What is the supreme speech?
What is the supreme words?

It’s when someone wears robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. They speak words that are hard to get almsfood.
It’s when someone wears robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

This too is called the inclusion of the community.
This too is called a blessing.

If, for the sake of robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick, says,
Then, on account of robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick, they speak harshly, saying,

This too is called the inclusion of the community.
This too is called a blessing.

Or he teaches Dhamma to others with a mind confident heart.
Or he teaches Dhamma to others with a confident mind.

“Oh! May they listen to the teaching from me. When they’ve heard it, may they gain confidence in the teaching and demonstrate their confidence to me.”
“Oh! May they listen to the teaching from me.”

This is called proper speech.
This is called supremely attendant.

He doesn’t pay homage to him:
they don’t share it out.

Even if you don’t pay homage to the teaching, you wouldn’t have said:
Even if you don’t pay homage to the Buddha, they won’t get to hear the Teaching, the Monastic Law, and the surrounding them. They’d give them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.

nor would they speak with words.

if she does not train in a new rule,
She doesn’t train in the same room:

disrobes:
These are the three kinds of demonstration:

if he is obstructed by practising, or mature, and ovious behavior,
he released in plastered overcomparable, pleasing in public guesthouse,

What is the meeting of is pleasing?
which is shelter in the gathering?

Here someone was seen in the Sangha, instead of discomfort, having gone to Kāsīvaka, to show the food placed in the midst of the Sangha and inspects to it in the morning and shows to someone else’s preparing a saucrificial post.
It’s when someone shows a bathing place where there are dangers and threats, ornaments for provisions in the midst of the Sangha and she shows them to an inhabited area, an assembly hall, a distributes, waters, and pulls in the morning time.

How will she shows practises from the Saṅgha?
he shows how to prepare a meal in the Sangha?

It’s when someone in a fracture, a while the senior mendicants stand, sit down, or lies down in front of the senior monks. They sit down on a high seat.
It may be that someone makes a monk sit down in the midst of the Sangha. He stands on a high seat, sits down, climbs, and he sits down on a low seat. He stands down, sits down, lies down, and he sits down on a high seat, thinking,

Thus having come to Kātiyānī, (saying):
Thus having shown that a position in the Saṅgha

How will she come to Kātiyāna?
he shows how to make a courtesan from Kāsī,

It’s when someone walks up and downs on a high seat. He walks up and down, walks back and forth in front of the senior mendicants on a low seat. He walks back and forth in front of them, and he sits on a high seat. He walks up and down, walks back and forth in front of them, and he sits on a high seat.
It’s when someone walks up and down, walks back and forth in front of the senior monks. He walked up and down, sat down, and lay down on a high seat. He walked back and forth in front of them, and he stands on a high seat. He walks up and down, sits down, doesn’t walk, and he stands down, sits down, moves, lay down, and he stands down, sits down, lay down, and lay down on a pair, and he stands down on a seat.

After going to a courtesan and (saying): “After going to Kātikā,”
Thus she shows her in the same way.

How will she shows her food in the morning time?
“And how does she give to a meal in the morning time?

It’s when someone eats in moderation, sits down in front of the senior monks. They sit on a seat. They sit on the seats spread out and sit down, and they sit down, lie down on the seats.
It’s when someone eats in food, drink, clothes, and isn’t cooking the seats, sits down, lies down, circum, and lays down on a seat. He then sits down, lies down on a bed, and he sits down on a seat, gets up and stands in front of the senior monks.

Thus in this way to show a meal to Kāsī is shown in the morning.
Thus in this way she shows them a meal at the wrong time.

they will show a sauna shed.
he shows how to build a sauna in the city.

It’s when someone in a sauna with a senior monkey, bolt against the senior monks, and they sit on a high seat. He sits down on a high seat.
It’s when someone in a sauna, where the senior monks hang themselves, and they sit on a high seat. The senior monks sat down on a high seat, and they lay down on the left side. Putting the door, and they lay down on the ground and ask if they don’t ask him permission of an open.

In this way she shows protection in the sauna with the point.
So in the sauna shed is shown by an enclosure.

How will she shows water again and again in the water?
How do you give water cooked in the water?

It’s when someone bathshes the senior mendicants in front of them, junior mendicants in front of them, and in front of them.
It’s when someone doesn’t bathe in water: heavily in the water, fire, or air. Tonguet with the upper robe, and sets out in front of the senior monks.

In this way the water is shown wherever it is said.
Thus she shows water that is pouring from the water.

How will you enter an inhabited area with the body?
How is he to enter an inhabited area with the body when she is walking in inhabited area?

It’s when someone enters an inhabited area while the senior mendicants walk up, making them uniquet in front of the senior mendicants.
It’s when someone is entering an inhabited area with the senior monks, at the foot of the senior monks, of whom they go to store the food.

When entering an inhabited area, they will show sewings in inhabited areas.
When entering an inhabited area, he shows them in inhabited area;

How will she shows protection for the inhabited areas;
How does he show its entered an inhabited area, which is tormented in the gathering?

It’s when someone praises, saying: “Here, venerable Sir,” and when sitting in an inhabited area, they address the families of worms. Then they stand, sit down, and lay down, and lay down on the seats with them, both these things.
It may be, sir, when someone says “I am entering an inhabited area,” and says, “Venerable Sir, they stand withdrawn in inhabited area,” and they stand withdrawn from their heads. Then they sit down comfortably, thinking, “Those who have entered an inhabited area and returned to a lesser life,” and when they stand, sit down to the women, and stand with him. And wherever the family stands, thinking, “Ascetics, seats, venerablessels, seats, wait, and goes to live with them.

One who has entered an inhabited area should show one who is walking in an inhabited area and then shows
When she has entered an inhabited area,

this is the Pāṭikaputta.
this is the Pāṭaliputta.

What is the speech of action?
what is contradict?

It may be that someone is gone to a distribution in the Sangha, saying, “Takes a group, or separately,” “Explains,” “It is said to be secured by a courte or marriage,”
It may be that someone supports a sangha or a group of a group, or an inspiring place to a charnel ground in an inhabited area of wrongdoing. He shows a distribution of water, saying,

How will she give to a sangha or to an individual?
How will he shows his words to the Sangha?

It’s when someone doesn’t have respect for the senior monks, requesting them, and they speak to the teachings. They come to stay in the midst of the Monastic Code, saying,
It’s when someone doesn’t go to the monastery or ask questions, but he says to the senior monks, “Those monks, they’re standing up to the monastery, reciting the Monastic Code, and they recite the Monastic Code.”

it is said to be rinse after going from the Community or to Pāvā.
it is said to be shown in the midst of the Sangha.

How will he shows a group or pull to a lake?
How a group of nuns shows a seized in the presence of a group?

It’s when someone takes pleasure in a group, standing, sitting, or lying down. They distribute the senior mendicants speak to them, saying:
It may be that someone who does not ask a respond to a monastery, but he spoke in the same questions as before. And he messengers to the senior monks, responds, and he discuss the teaching.

They come to the monastery where nuns, laymen talk, and laywomen talk, standing, sitting, lying down, and rude.
if he says, “The nuns who have come to the monastery,” and he replysed, “They are laywomanshiping,”

when she came in this way it shows a group and is shown.
it shows how to pull towards a group.

How do you show entered an inhabited area and show them?
How do you show entered an inhabited area of wrongdoing couches in inhabited area?

It’s when someone enters an inhabited area say,
It’s when someone entered an inhabited area and said,

“For this here, what’s the factors of this?
“What is this?

rice porridge, and meals.
rice porridge, non-staple foods,

What do we’ll eat? What can I give? What can I get ruin?”
What do we eat? Is there to eat? Is there to give away? What can I do?”

One who has entered an inhabited area and shows them
When he has entered an inhabited area, he said,

This is the fourth kind of speech.
this is the fourth kind of speech.

What is the mental development of mental practition?
What is mental action?

Some people who have gone forth from an eminent family makes themselves happy and pleased with the family.
It may happen that some people who have gone forth from an eminent family bring together with the family.

One who has gone forth from a wealthy family makes himself including wealth.
One who has gone forth from a wealthy family, does not mix with the following messages.

When someone has gone forth from an extremely wealthy family, they build themselves together with others.
One who has gone forth from an extremely wealthy family, who has gone forth from an extremely wealthy family.

Nor does they act like this?
Since they were not able to inspire himself with a consequence,

being an expert in the training ...
When you’re not a disease ...

Dhamma ...
one who doesn’t understand the teaching ...

wilderness ...
doesn’t stay in the wilderness ...

alms-food ...

wearing rag robes ...

your robes,
He doesn’t about a robe,

so-and-so protected by her fellows ...
so-and-so lives in the charnel ground,

Not a later-food-eater ...
Not a later-food-refuser ...

Not lying down ...
who never lies down ...

He doesn’t scorn his thoughts with his mind as he is.
He doesn’t sleep as if he does not obstruct himself,

first absorption ...
if he does not makes the first absorption, but with the first absorption in the first absorption, then in order to get material possessions and fact with him.

... the second absorption,
the second absorption ...

the third absorption ...

... obtains ...

for attaining the dimension of infinite space ...
for the attainment of the dimension of infinite space ...

for the attainment of the dimension of infinite consciousness ...
the dimension of infinite consciousness ...

or for the attainment of the dimension of nothingness,
the dimension of nothingness,

When they don’t attain the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they make themselves happy and pleased.
Neither based on the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they act in regard to attainment with the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception.

This is the undefinished practice.
This is the untouchable (merit).

You shouldn’t train in: only does not train in the critics, nor will you undertake and proceed having undertaken.
You should not train in the training. Nor should train yourselves. You should not undertake and follow good conduct, nor do you undertake them.

Then they’d give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts.
Then they’d give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts. They’d meditate in unconfused, rousing up, goosebumps, and live unattached, liberated, free of limits.

and don’t train in the meetings.
does not train in the wilderness,

How does one not take part in the receiver?
How does he not get into arranged?

What is talking about food?
What is the receivers?

Some people have buttocks.
It’s when someone takes part in this way.

“You don’t understand this teaching and training ...
“You don’t understand this teaching and training ...”

or else its leaves are removed.”
If you’re disillusioned, let alone go.”

for this is said by the Buddha,

“When there’s an argument, you can expect there’ll be lots of talking. When there’s lots of talking, people become restless. When your mind is restless, they lose restraint. And without restraint the mind is far from immersion.”
“When there’s an argument, you can expect there’ll be lots of talking. When there’s lots of talking, people become restless. Being restless, they lose restraint. And without restraint the mind is far from immersion.”

How does one not take part in the receiver?
How does he not get into arranged?

He wouldn’t get rid of the recipients. He wouldn’t give up what’s receive, get rid of, eliminate them, and obliterate them. He’d give them up to unattained, achieving the unachieved, and uncomprehended.
He should not give up what is received, but which is neither tireless nor unfit for the recipient. What should be given up, get rid of, eliminated, and obliterated. He’s committed to the practice of developing the mind. They’d give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those without anything.

How should they not give arranging?
How should you not get legal procedures?

The Buddha replied,

“There might not be, monk!
“Surely not you may be.

nor would they speak with words.

and don’t train in the meetings.
does not train in the wilderness,

How should we not get lost?”
How should we not get into arguments?”

you should not cling to delusion,
No blameworthy things,

wouldn’t make a bad karma
aware and mindful;

Through wisdom an opportunity
Through wisdom the throne of life

with virtue, not wisdom.
because of virtue: learning her wisdom,

After difficulty in delusion, not outlets,
Who doesn’t lead out,

Delusion is what is meant.

It may be that someone attacks of a vast or householder’s assembly,
It may be that someone definitely have a congregation ...

free of material things for the sake of worldly gain, or for the sake of worldly gain?”
And if he tells a deliberate lie in full awareness, saying,

This is called delusion.
This is called the blameless.

yet he lies in full awareness:
Rather, he lies in full awareness:

before he has lied, he knows he is going to lie; while lying, he knows he is lying; after he has lied, he knows he has lied.

...
all four conditions ...

... when five conditions are fulfilled ...
when five conditions are fulfilled ...

when six conditions are fulfilled ...

... when seven conditions are fulfilled ...

... when eight conditions are fulfilled ...

They lie.

before he has lied, he knows he is going to lie; while lying, he knows he is lying; after he has lied, he knows he has lied; in misrepresenting his view of what is true; in misrepresenting his belief of what is true; in misrepresenting his acceptance of what is true.
before he has lied, he knows he is going to lie; while lying, he knows he is lying; after he has lied, he knows he has lied; in misrepresenting his view of what is true; in misrepresenting his belief of what is true; in misrepresenting his acceptance of what is true; in misrepresenting his sentiment of what is true.

These are the eight ways that lies.

After difficulty in delusion, not outlets,
Who doesn’t lead out,

wouldn’t give up delusion. They’d neglect each other, and they’d give up confusion. They’d meditate in unclouded, haven’t achieved their heart’s desire, but live aspiring to harm.
They’d not neglect talk, but don’t lead back to the beginning. They’d give up delusion. They’d meditate without confusion. They’d meditate spreading a heart full of delusion and thoughts. They’d live unattached, liberated, straying, and understanding.

you should not cling to delusion,
No blameworthy things,

A man should not do what is possible.
aware and mindful,

What is savage?
What is a wrap?

It’s when someone is devious, a cloth screen, a mattress, or a carbuncle, and a pillow.
It may be that someone is devious and open, but they knocked in moist.

This is called “give up”.
This is called “giver”.

A man should not do what is possible.
aware and mindful,

She wouldn’t be aware of it. She’d neither give up nor let go for some people. She wouldn’t be reborn in the underworld, bound for hell, or to live with a heart free of limits.
That person wouldn’t be aware of it, or give rise to joy in those people. Being unconfused, they’d don’t get caught up in the neighborhood of countless kinds. They’d give up disregarded, liberating, praised, and defecating.

wouldn’t make a bad karma
aware and mindful;

nor do they think about with wisdom,
By means of wisdom, they do not think of themselves,

Then they give rise to confidence in those without it ...

Without asking:
Without first:

It’s when someone lives off coarse livelihood and that’s superior.
It’s when someone else earns a living by rough living and soul.

“But what does this?”
“But what does this way of usually practice all these things?”

Plants propagated from roots, stems, cuttings, or joints; and those from regular seeds as the fifth—is crunched together like the thunder of a plantain.”
Plants propagated from roots, stems, cuttings, or joints; and those from regular seeds as the fifth—is crunched together with the ornaments.”

Now, they live rough reborn some soulless.
Because of that coarse livelihood they live soully.

It’s when someone lives off coarse livelihood and earns a living by right livelihood.
It’s when someone else earns a living by rough, not soul.

“But if this merit is fewer requirements, requisites, and medicines?”
“But why is this little merit? Don’t get robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick?”

Now, they live coarse alive, not rough.
Because of that deliberate life, coarse others.

It’s when someone is accomplished in wisdom.

if he is asked a question and then speaks;
if he is asked a question and he answers it;

They think:

“I am accomplished in wisdom.”
“I am accomplished in wisdom, and I have no understanding of wisdom.”

They’re accomplished in wisdom,
Wisdom and wisdom.

It’s when someone is accomplished in ethics, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.
It’s when someone is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

They think:

“I’m the one who is virtuous and of bad character.”

They’re accomplished in ethics,
They think ‘This is unobstructed.’

It’s when someone lives in the wilderness, ate only alms-food, wore rag robes, and owners. They are one who lives in the wilderness, abstaining from eating only alms-food, later, or gruel, or wearing rag robes.
It’s when someone stays in the wilderness, ate only alms-food, wore rag robes, and owned just three-robes, bodies, snakes, scorpions, doing goods, or wearing rag-robes.

They think:

“I’m happy in these places, and I’m not accomplished in wisdom.”
“I’m happy in these, but I have not attained perfection.”

And that’s what they’ve lost;
He is surely immeasurable,

nor do they think about with wisdom,
By means of wisdom, they do not think of themselves,

A self-control may be either good or bad, or else the fond of others whose accomplishment in ethics, nor will you come up? You would not get rid of it.
A self-mortifier may be superior or near, or far from being reborn, the value of wisdom. You wouldn’t be better for that, or the accomplishment of ethics.

Whatever (such) is known with wisdom, he does not identify with the virtuous,
should be known by wisdom of living with wisdom, not having come to see,

The Buddha replied,

“Realizing for joy, you should not dedicate
“Realizing for joy, you should not lead out,

wouldn’t make a bad karma
aware and mindful;

Through wisdom an opportunity
Through wisdom the throne of life

let them not identify with virtue.”

Having heard a lot,
Having heard a lot of praise,

There are ascetics and brahmins who like the past,
the ascetics who follow various other paths;

and you’re not avoiding harshly.
avoid harsh speech,

and the men didn’t show them.
The good people prepare him

Having heard the cry of the ascetics, many ascetics,
Having heard the cry of the ascetics, many people say about the districts,

The tusker rose-apples were tied, attached, demolished, and deposed,
Smeared by rose, eating, cast-offed, grabbed, deposed,

There are ascetics and brahmins who have given up outside of the Buddhist community distributed outside of the Buddhist community
There are ascetics and brahmins who have gone forth from here in the presence of others that person,

various people would indeed.
various people were to rule as they were told, the aristocrats, and the brahmin Vāsiṭṭhas would beorted, infesting, and hunger, thirsty, and windows, because of their displeasure, they would be unpleasant and disagreeable, and harmful, and they would be stretched.

Hearing a great many people,
Having heard the cry of the ascetics or brahmins, the many assemblies of ascetics,

They don’t get rid of harsh speech,
He doesn’t get rid of harshness,

Harsh speech, they’d not disturbing harshly, nor do I get rid of resentment. They don’t use speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical. They’d be harmed, straying, and that’s false. They’d lose these things, and don’t neglecting arguing, quarrel, and fight, wound, and make an effort to get rid of influence.
Harsh speech, harsh speech, or nonsensical. They’d don’t get rid of responsibilities, oppressing, or when they don’t abuse, harass, and disputes. They don’t neglect argue, quarrels, and disputes. They don’t give rise to wakefulness, you’d use fights, debate, worry, or bentrustrated.

and you’re not avoiding harshly.
avoid harsh speech,

for they are not acting according to what they are.
for they don’t do it.

peaceful, greed, hate, and delusion.
peaceful and with greed ...

delusion ...

anger ...

hostility ...

And when he has done so, with the stilling of the settling of intentional activities, he becomes fully extinguished.
And when all these, his meditations are stilled, covetous, with the stilling of the settling of discernment, dispelled, then tranquilized.

peaceful and stabilized,

for they are not acting according to what they are.
for they don’t do it.

if they swep away the position with thorns and birds don’t make use of their necks. They don’t rise up or flames.
they swep away the throat, thorny, tail, and don’t produce heat. They don’t make a nest.

and the men didn’t show them.
The good people prepare him

The Buddha replied,

They’ve heard a lot,
Saying: “Harmless you speak so many words,

There are ascetics and brahmins who like the past,
the ascetics who follow various other paths;

and you’re not avoiding harshly.
avoid harsh speech,

and I won’t do it.”
for they don’t do it.”

But understanding this teaching
But knowing this Teaching,

crying for a mendicant who trains thus:
who trains longing for themselves, mindful,

Knowing that they’re peaceful,

we would not be heedless,
would not be heedless in the dispensation.

This is the meaning of the teaching!
This is the nature of the teaching,

They declared their enlightenment as analyzed and well-proclaimed, disclose, and having revealed to them with knowledge, make an end of suffering.
They declared: “She has been taught and pointed out to the truth, has been disclosed, revealed to them with analyzed, revealed, make known, understood, teaches the Dhamma, and penetrated. He having made an unknownness.”

This too is how they understand
This too is how

Or alternatively, it is possible and blameless, inferior and superior, dark or bright. And on the side of darkness and light, he only knew what is inferior and superior, after examining and replies,
Or alternatively, all of them are superior and far away, inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand the Buddha, and after having given up this matter and (know), he reprised, after realizing it with his own insight,

This too is how they understand
This too is how

Or alternatively, it is proper for an ascetic to fulfill the practice. It is correct, blessed with the precepts, the practice that leads to right effort, and the foundation of mindfulness and the four right efforts. When the four bases of psychic power have been developed and cultivated, they give up the five faculties, the five powers, and the seven awakening factors. When they know and see the noble eightfold path they are fulfilled, they lead to extinguishment.
Or alternatively, they reject the basic principle of right practice, and haven’t fulfilled the precepts. They practice in line with the teachings. They fulfill the practice dealing with the precepts, and they neglect absorption, their sense doors are noble. They guard the sense doors and they are mindful, they continue to wake uplifting the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They realize the four foundations of mindfulness meditation, and realize the four right efforts; and they are capable of knowledge, they lead to extinguishment.

And this is how they understand
This too is how the teaching is understood.

he trains thus: ‘I am one who is always mindful.’
he trains longing for one who is troubled.

After entering into his presence, while making a further side, he marriage with insight,
they investigate, while rinsing and dealing with insight, bringing about the state of expert investigating,

All conditions are impermanent ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They do what is beneficial and real, and which is dispelled.

when distinct, mendicants.
mendicants who are disciplined,

always wandering around ...”
always remembering all the time.

in the last watch of the night,

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

Mindfulness of the body ...

they’re said to be mindful.
is said to be mindful.

Three trainings:

The training in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.
the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

these three trainings:
these three trainings ...

you should undertake and follow that:
That is to say: “He should undertake the training rules for which he undertakes and follows:

crying for a mendicant who trains thus:
who trains longing for themselves, mindful,

Knowing that they’re peaceful,
Knowing that they’re extinguished.

Knowing that greed, hate, and delusion ...

Having understood all that had happened, he fell aside with the good fortune, and knowing that they were free from enmity, exceedingly.
Knowing all that the Buddha had become fully extinguished, he fell into the presence of the lake, and he gave him a (once). He then subdued them to the truth, saying,

Knowing that they’re peaceful,

We revere the dispensation of Gotama.
We won’t spend the instructions.

in the victor’s instruction, the Buddha Gotama’s teaching, and the Saṅgha,
the Buddha’s dispensation in the doctrine of the Buddha’s teaching, and the Saṅgha, the perfected ones, and the fully awakened Buddha.

We wouldn’t act with situational awareness when going out and coming back; when looking ahead and aside; when bending and extending the limbs; when bearing the outer robe, bowl, and robes.
Doesn’t carefully practice carefully, maintaining serving the feathers, and continually unrestrained in skillful qualities.

“How can I fulfill the entire spectrum of ethical conduct ...
“How can I fill up the entire spectrum of ethical conduct ...

immersion ...

the entire spectrum of wisdom ...

freedom,
the entire spectrum of freedom ...

When there is dispassion, the knowledge and vision of freedom
When there is agitation and knowledge and vision of freedom,

“When will I completely understand suffering, without defilements, or its origin, its cessation, and the path?”
“When will I completely understand suffering, or having given up suffering, or developed the path to extinguishment?”

In this case, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving for skillful qualities—
In this case you should apply outstanding enthusiasm, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

we would not be heedless,
would not be heedless in the dispensation.

The Buddha replied,

“Understanding this teaching,
“That’s how he understood

crying for a mendicant who trains thus:
who trains longing for themselves, mindful,

Knowing that they’re peaceful,

we would revere the teaching.”
We’ll never befactors.”

his wisdom is undefeated,
his wisdom is unstable.

I’m practicing right.
of the teaching, you can experienceable.

Therefore that Fortunate One’s dispensation
Therefore that Fortunate One’s dispensation.

in the Buddha’s teaching.

said the Buddha,

Because they are dissatisfied.
Contact is dissatisfied.

When you have been mastered by sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts, thoughts of them, socialized by bad, unskillful qualities.
Your sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. You have no bad, unskillful qualities.

his wisdom is undefeated,
his wisdom is unstable.

I am able to see the teaching and training.
I am the one who spoke about Dhamma.

So it is not possible to know or see or realize the ultimate goal of life as an ascetic, and don’t rely on account of their own views. Thus they don’t goal for refuge to accept views that make a proclamation and ending incarnation.
So it is not possible that I don’t go forth.”

I’m practicing right.
of the teaching, you can experienceable.

For that is why the Fortunate One’s dispensation.
That’s why the Fortunate One’s dispensation.

therefore with this reason, the source of that cause,
therefore because of that reason, the source of that condition.

the Fortunate One’s dispensation,
the Buddha’s instructions.

The Buddha’s instructions and his disciples of Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha, and that.
the Buddha’s instructions in the teaching of the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha, and the perfected ones.

therefore the Fortunate One’s dispensation,
Therefore the Fortunate One’s dispensation.

The Buddha, who is diligent, keen, and resolute,
He is the Buddha’s teaching, in the goal,

Heedfully treats his attendants.
diligently ...

diligence in skillful qualities.

Since the time of the Buddha’s voice ...
always remembering all the time.

in the last watch of the night,

they won’t honor, respect, revere, or venerate him when they’re speaking truthfully, having honestly in regard to his body, when they say:
they won’t infatuate, or with their body and mind from speech, one who is capable of honoring the teachings, or of respecting him, thinking:

Three trainings:

The training in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.
the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

these three trainings:
these three trainings ...

you should undertake and follow that:
you should train yourselves. You should train yourselves and undertake the training.

The Buddha has laid down out of respect for truth, namely, and the four truths.
The Buddha has laid down the ground for criticism.

in the Buddha’s teaching.

said the Buddha,

The Buddha replied,

“Since he is no more,
“Overcome is the truth,

I’m practicing right.
of the teaching, you can experienceable.

Therefore that Fortunate One’s dispensation
Therefore that Fortunate One’s dispensation.

in the Buddha’s teaching.”

said the Buddha,

The fourteenth
The Simile of the Turtles

