Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

15. Attadaṇḍasuttaniddesa

Then he taught the Discourse on Taking up a Stick.
Then, he say,

one’s own fear,
fear, terror,

See the people who see -
see the people who look after them,

I’ll extol the realm,
I’ll restrain myself

as I when I are inspired by him.
as I have been living in spiritual life,

They’re born in oneself,
he became born in oneself,

Three kinds of punishment:
Three kinds of staff:

body, speech, and mind.
Potector, decorated with the body,

three kinds of bad bodily conduct, verbal, and mental conduct.
by body, speech, and mind, and these three kinds of misconduct.

two dangers and threats:
two sisters,

what is the present life and lives to come.
the danger, and threat in the present life,

What is the fear of this life?
What is the danger that leads to the present life?

It’s when someone does bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They build a sheath who kills living creatures, steals, commits sexual misconduct, and lies.
It’s when someone does bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They use speech that is high and low, across, everywhere, all around, they commit adultery, steal, and lie.

The king would present him, saying,
The king, arrested him and present him,

“Your Majesty, this is a bandit,
“Your Majesty, this is a bandit, a criminal.

Punish him as you will.”

The king thought,
The king said to him:

Harsh condition, they experience pain and sadness.
And they experience pain and sadness because of that,

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

A king constricted with a realm of blind mends, if he harassed by a snake, poison, ropes, by constricting with chains, by constricting to a city, by constricting to a village, by constricting to a town, by being guarded.
Then the king bondservants, workers, and staff fastened with a strong rope. It shackles, by constricting with carpentry, by constricting to a city, by constricting to a village, by constricting to a town, by being guarded.

“We can’t.”
“It’s not possible to depart.”

They experience pain and sadness because of the bond.
They experience pain and sadness because of hatred.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

The King had vanquished wealth
The king gets him to take his wealth, saying,

or a hundred thousand, or a hundred thousand,
or a hundred thousand things;

And they experience pain and sadness because of that he experiences pain and sadness.
And he experiences pain and sadness because of that he experiences pain and sadness.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

The rulers would arrest them and subject them to various punishments—

The keys, the palms, the hands, and the drunk lotus bubbles, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘garland of fire’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘grass blades’, the ‘bark dress’, the ‘antelope’, the ‘meat hook’, the ‘coins’, the ‘caustic pickle’, the ‘twisting bar’, the ‘straw mat’; being splashed with hot oil, being fed to the dogs, being impaled alive, and being beheaded.
The whipping blade of whips, caning, clubbing; cutting off hands or feet, or both; the ‘porridge pot’, the ‘shell-shave’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘garland of fire’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘grasss blades’, the ‘bark dress’, the ‘antelope’, the ‘meat hook’, the ‘coins’, the ‘caustic pickle’, the ‘twisting bar’, the ‘straw mat’; being splashed with hot oil, being fed to the dogs, being impaled alive, and being impaled.

And they experience pain and sadness because of that.
And because of that deed he experiences pain and sadness.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

These are the four rods of the kings,
These are the four Kings, the lord of the earth,

When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.
But when their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.

The wardens of hell punish them with the five-fold crucifixion.
Then the wardens of hell punish them with the five-fold crucifixion.

They drive red-hot stakes through the hands and feet, and another in the middle of the chest.

Herein, painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings,
Herein, painful, sharp feelings complex,

But when they die, they don’t make bad karma.
And so the bad deeds don’t die until that bad deed is eliminated.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

Then the wardens of hell throw them down and hack them with axes. ...

Herein, painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings,
Herein, painful, sharp feelings complex,

But when they die, they don’t make bad karma.
And so the bad deeds don’t die until that bad deed is eliminated.

They hang them upside-down and hack them with hatchets. ...

They harness them to a chariot, and drive them back and forth across burning ground, blazing and glowing. ...

They make them climb up and down a huge mountain of burning coals, blazing and glowing. ...

Then the wardens of hell turn them upside down and throw them in a red-hot copper pot, burning, blazing, and glowing.

There he boards up to the blades,
He boards the spot:

There they’re seared in boiling scum, and they’re swept up and down and round and round.

Herein, painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings,
Herein, painful, sharp feelings complex,

But when they die, they don’t make bad karma.
And so the bad deeds don’t die until that bad deed is eliminated.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

Then the wardens of hell toss them into the Great Hell.

Now, about that Great Hell:

‘Four are its corners, four its doors,

neatly divided in equal parts.

Surrounded by an iron wall,

dissipately,
is not venerated by the Buddha,

The ground is even made of iron,

it burns with fierce fire.

The heat forever radiates

a hundred leagues around.’

The wife of the Sakyans, ear-, nose-,
The wife though is fair, song,

like a flame.
for the sake of birth and death.

hair and body,
metality and body,

in fear and dread,
that’s the point of getting suffering.

if he is fearful;
to the East of the East

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

burning up bad deeds,

and thought,
pregnant,

and later.
and spring up by the west.

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

burning up bad deeds,

wards off the eastern quarter,
and wards for the east,

and fearing north.

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

burning up bad deeds,

due to a religious donation.
you’re worthy of a religious donation.

to the southern wall.
to the offering;

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

burning up bad deeds,

and relying on the supreme.
and goes on the northern quarter.

the lower (in return),
above, below, and all around;

The conceited, arrogant fool,
has gone out, fear,

burning up bad deeds,

and no-one else will consider that
and you look for six things:

Six Drawbacks

The conceited, arrogant fool,
has gone out, fear,

burning up bad deeds,

and destroys irrewing around.
of accumulating truth,

Their Book of the goals
The Book of the Aggressiveness

like a burning flame.
like a burning flame,

so Avīra hell
So one dying in the Avīci hell

above while standing on the low side.
Below the upper side.

Herein, the great beings live on the ocean,
Herein, the great beings live in it,

collapsed with great foes,
you’ll make a great bed

have reached the goal,
reached the ultimate goal.

They don’t move in the lake,
And they don’t monsters or deer.

Glass is born,
The body is produced.

by the wardens of hell.
to hell for them.

See, being strong,
see how it is being strong,

Neither had no fear,
there is no danger for anyone,

and they ran backwards.
to the east,

What he goes beyond the west,
and then runs downwards.

northern quarter,
northerly by the north.

western quarters (of the world),
and then the offering is worthy of a religious donation.

Whatever quarter goes beyond
That quarter is runs down

the door is (thinking):

and I’ve gone forth like the lady.
and then we went out.

who seeks happiness,
Sentient beings who seek birth,

and therefore I am not able to leave
and therefore I am not able to leave.

because of deeds: deeds,
because of deeds: because of deeds.

But they’ve done bad deeds
But their bad deeds have done,

a lot of non-disappearance.
for what has not been done.

This is the suffering, how could it be wrong?
This is suffering, what is the cause of suffering?

born from an egg, born from a womb, appearance, produced.
he was born, and has appeared in a womb, he appeared in his birth,

Nearly weak pain, harm, suffering, and collapsed within the animal realm. And we will live on what is painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings.
They’re always painful, sharp, severe, acute pain, depressed by sickness, thirst, and suffering.

When born’s produced by what is born, growing old, dying, passing away, or being reborn?
Since those born in them, how could they be reborn?

born from eggs, from a womb, from moisture, or spontaneously.
born in oneself, he appears, and appears.

one’s own fear,
fear, terror,

the people who see -
see the people who look for.

aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers who have gone forth as a worker. And people who were violent, glory, and go forth, people looked after people on them, using such a thing.
Wandering, aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers go forth, warriors who have gone forth, yourselves, and horses and charioteers, and people present him with art. You might see people clearly to you, then all people were troubled.

See the people who see -
see the people who look after them,

I’ll expel them in actions.
I’ll shake off my wrap;

terrified, and fearing, boiling, and anguish.
movement, observed the perils of fear, terror, and downfall,

I will teach you what can I do?
I will teach you what can I explain, I will teach, I will declare, I will set forth, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will make plain, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will make plain, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will make plain, I will declare, I will reveal, I will reveal, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will reveal it, I will make it clear.

I’ll extol the realm,
I’ll restrain myself

as I was living in spiritual life.
as I have been living,

You just as I act like this,
It is just as I was struck by myself, the one who was struck with a sense of urgency,

as I when I are restrained.
as I have been living in spiritual life.

The Buddha replied,

“There’s fear, this lovely thing!
“One born is born,

See the people who see -
see the people who look after them,

I’ll extol the realm,
I’ll restrain myself

as I have found out about the victor.”
as I have been living in spiritual life.”

Having seen the stainless state,
Having seen the stainless,

like a trap set at the departure.
like a fish in holesticated

of mutually hurting,
oppressed by each other,

and you’ve seen me as fearful.
Seeing me, you fear.

because of being seen as being intoxicated,
Having seen her, the Lord of the World,

Passing during beings,
people understand beings’ attachments.

Craving for craving is happiness and strength, or is attachment to views.
Craving is the cause of craving, bondservants, and views for the sake of views.

ding the defilements,
Giving up the defilements,

The tailling of misconduct
and placed on the road.

when buried (tom) ornaments,
leaving behind the one’s riches,

who have resultant deeds,
those who go through quarrels,

enjoying passion and hatred,
to enjoy passion and hatred,

being hurtful, stinking, and cast off afflicted by hate,
When a person is drawn by hate,

feverish, by delusion,
fish by delusion,

who’s bound by conceit,
When you’re bound by conceit,

and plucked into the parks.
for the park to give up views.

after overexertion and scattered, with great energy,
Agitation overpowered by the wind, when defilement

and doubt regarding the undeclared,
doubt, conceit, and doubt.

We have come with those ornaments,
We go to the Lord of the Death,

We’ll receive gain and honor,
The gaining material possessions

Though gaining gain
gaining loss,

Because of the power of fame
When the one who is strikes out of fame,

Though with the non-greed
When a person is struck by a snake,

is praised by the astute,
is praised by the astute

I blameworthy,
I’ve fallen theft of blame

When you’re happy with happiness,
When you’re able to know the happiness

have come to suffering again and again,
when you have fallen into suffering,

of birth and death,
when rebirth is old,

now old, it’s out of old age.
The old age, like—

I was driven by the sickness
When sickness is falling apart,

through death,
The death of death through the power of death

grief, lamentation, pain, sorrow, and despair,
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

don’t trap me with pain,
don’t get close to pain.

trickling with the animal realm,
(From the animal realm) with weapons,

when they have come to an end, suffering by grief,
by one who has fallen into pains with suffering.

who is transgressed with suffering,
those who have given up suffering.

They ground themselves in a womb with two root items ...
the embryo is rooted in suffering.

For sixty-four grounds ...
Pregnancy is a ground for suffering. ...

For one who has completed the embryo is reborn in a womb
When there is a ground, root item with a root and all suffering,

collapsed with gold,
by a Father’s womb,

From its born, suffering, and disturbance.
they’re born in another’s womb ...

for what’s left behind;
for the sake of pain ...

overexertion ...
because of what belongs to others’ suffering. ...

suffering,
suffering ...

choices ...
the suffering in choices ...

or decay and perish.
or suffering,

eye contact ...
eye disease ...

Streams ...
streams of the noble ones ...

nose contact ...
nose contact,

tongue ...
tongue,

body ...

a monkey,
a load of head,

one without an ear-holes ...
one without an ear,

disease,
a disease,

fire with water ...
between the two wombs ...

feeding together ...
a crow ...

the anus ...
that deliverance ...

generally ...
because of one’s mind,

burning ...
burning in a burning ...

old age,

one with a disease as an axe,
a disease,

freed ...
semen is emitted ...

one paralyzed on one side,
for one paralyzed on one side ...

Sūra,
Sūrapaka,

if she is disrobed;
if she is demolished ...

Kuṇāla ...
with an axe,

one with goiter,
treasury ...

defilements ...
corruption,

They personally respect the ear ...
earns ...

vanity ...
deceitful ...

Giving ...
you should give ...

Kaṇḍuka,
the dropping of the snake,

Kaccāna ...

Excellent,
Experiential confidence in the teaching,

if a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion ...
for one who has caused a schism in the Sangha,

with one who has caused but not red ...
If he causes another to bleed,

Perhaps the mind is delivered ...
a father ...

with honey ...
Madhurā ...

...”

with joined palms ...

arrangement ...
ties,

affliction,
afflictions arising from excessiveness,

afflictions arising from excessive phlegm,
afflictions arising from a physician ...

affliction ...
afflictions arising from a wind ...

a consequence ...
a concept ...

afflictions born of contact ...
affliction ...

afflictions ...

affliction ...

afflictions born of deeds ...
afflictions from a result of past deeds ...

cold ...

hot in the heat,
warm himself,

nose dropping ...
one without an ear,

He ascended the palace ...
ascending the palace ...

relics,
sugarcane,

Seeing danger ...
Seeing the danger ...

touched by flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

your mother is pain ...
your mother is deaf

because of his love ...
of a father ...

with a brother ...
with a burden put down ...

suffering ...

with suffering as a refuge ...
suffering ...

daughter ...

suffering,
suffering ...

wealth ...
loss of wealth ...

insolentness ...
loss of health ...

miserly with suffering,
loss of ethics,

Food with misconception, being swept away by view, trickling down laziness, and swelling the arms.
He scorns his views, because he wants to come to see the swelling of suffering.

Seeing him, they keep charming and becoming discovering. They discovered and undeveloped, and then lost,
Seeing that, they saw him, and developed him.

Having seen the stainless state,
Having seen the stainless,

They drive water away the into it, and they sweep away the water, or fill it with water and so on. They sweep away the limbs, or they took up their hands and feet.
They drank the bed, just as they were told, or the water stalks on the ground. They washed it with water, put it on the ground, pebbles, and sweep away their transfers.

In the same way, craving, and craving transmigration.
In the same way, take care of craving for bonds. ...

And they swell the way to misfortune.
And they try to persuade roll him with loss of misconception and inquire into his views.

like a trap set at the departure.
like a fish in holesticated

Sentient beings who are cruel and crushing each other, they’re repulsible to each other.
Standing each other, they resent each other, and they chatted each other with barbed words.

kings fight with kings, aristocrats fight with aristocrats, brahmins fight with brahmins, householders fight with householders. A mother fights with her child, child with mother, father with child, and child with father. Brother fights with brother, brother with sister, sister with brother, and friend fights with friend.

Once they’ve started quarreling, arguing, and fighting, they attack each other with fists, stones, rods, and swords.
Once they’ve started quarreling, arguing, and fighting, they attacked each other with fists, stones, rods, and swords.

of mutually hurting,
oppressed by each other,

Secluded, they become discontent.
Seeing me, you fear.

Seeing that, he saw the Tusita bag, and being free from fear, he displayed fear, terror and goosebumps, and becoming a supreme residence.
Seeing this, one saw the urgency, having destroyed the fearful miracle, paid homage to the bolt, and dedicated to the gods.

and you’ve seen me as fearful.
Seeing me, you fear.

The Buddha replied,

“Seeing the way, seeing the stainless,
“When you’ve seen the people,

like a trap set at the departure.
like a fish in holesticated

of mutually hurting,
oppressed by each other,

Seeing me as fearful.”
Seeing me, you fearlessly.”

The world is infinite

spread out in every direction.

in regard to the continuation of existence.
for continued existence,

I wasn’t keen or poised,
I’d never poisoned.

The world is infinite

The world in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the human world, and the world of the gods.
The world of beings is reborn in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods. This world of the gods, the Brahmā realm.

is called the world.
This is called the world.

Hell or sword and sympathetic in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, or the heart that leads to peace and is permanent, lasting, eternal, and imperishable.
Hell or bearing in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the heartwood, the moving back and the shelter, or the west.

of animals,
the animal realm,

looking forwards at the ghost realm ...
looks at the ghost realm ...

a human being ...
a human realm ...

heavenly realm ...
a god ...

look at the entire mass of the aggregates ...
a mass of fire ...

The world element ...
the world element ...

the world conscious ...
the world’s world contracting,

‘The cosmos is finite ...’ ...

‘The world is the other world ...’ ...
the world ...

Brahmā ...
the Brahmā realm ...

Devas then may you be healthy, everlasting, wishing for themselves: “Don’t flowing out or welcome, or sympathetic in ourselves.”
When god is announced to the gods, Māra, the one who is healthy, happy, or to bearing out of compassion, with desire and aversion, whether permanent or impermanent.

But there’s a dying goat, a horse trainer, demolishes, and thorns like a charioteer, as the essential cattle, and the wild colts would come out from the water without absence; as he transgress in the essential, as well as the essential fisher.
But just as a calf doesn’t come back to essential curry like a charioteer who has fallen from a heavy leaf hut. As the essential does not go to a wild colt, the wild ignoble, the essential, the current ropes, the feeding in the essential, the essential, the wild essential, the wild essential, and the As a cramped heapons greedy, the backsing in the heartwood, the heartwood, the droad, the pushed, he reed, and he came out.

In the same way, Hell or hereafter is one who has fallen into hell, the animal realm, the essence, or the heart that’s permanent or impermanent?
In the same way, Hell or hereafter he’s healthy and well, far from hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm: that’s permanent or impermanent.

of animals,
the animal realm,

looking forwards at the ghost realm ...
looks at the ghost realm ...

a human being ...
a human realm ...

Devas then may you be healthy, everlasting, wishing for themselves: “Don’t flowing out or welcome, or sympathetic in ourselves.”
When god is announced to the gods, Māra, the one who is healthy, happy, or to bearing out of compassion, with desire and aversion, whether permanent or impermanent.

look at the entire mass of the aggregates ...
a mass of fire ...

The world element ...
the world element ...

the world conscious ...
the world’s world contracting,

‘The cosmos is finite ...’ ...

‘The world is the other world ...’ ...
the world ...

Brahmā ...
the Brahmā realm ...

Devas then may constantly fall from the world—whether he’s permanent, everlasting, eternal, or imperishable—
When god is announced as a essential ...

The world is infinite

spread out in every direction.

Of those in the east, the west, the north, and the south—structed and cructed by birth, old age, and death—what’re established in death.
Of those in the eastern quarters—those who live in the east, west, north, and south—stream-enterers, bringing death.

do those in the west ...
choices in the west ...

northern quarter ...

northern quarter ...
district ...

those who in the eastern direction ...
whatever choices there are in the eastern direction ...

Any kind of choices at the west ...
choices in the western direction ...

Those who respectively in the north direction ...
Those choices in the north direction ...

those who are worthy of offerings ...
Those who are worthy of a religious donation ...

do those who know,
choices ...

formations ...
towards the upper direction ...

Of those in ten regions, the phenomena, the over-association with birth, old age, and death, to their end, shelter and death.
And there are ten directions, namely, clans, snapped off the strikes, and rocks and trembles.

If you’ve spoken this in order:
If he does,

“So what if your palace shines,

lighting up the quarter?
lighting up the entire direction,

A clever person who has seen the deficiency in form,

its chronic trembling, takes no pleasure in it.

The world is beaten down by death

and surrounded by old age.

The dart of craving has laid it low,

and it’s always fuming with desire.

all the world is alight,

all the world is smoldering,

all the world is ablaze,

all the world is rocking.”

spread out in every direction.

to be self-developed.
Desire for continued existence,

They come to his own life, preserve the refuge for life. And they consent to him, saying,
the sharing of his own life, the position of one who lives for refuge (in Buddha), the Lord of the Padumuttara, and having come to an end.

in regard to the continuation of existence.
for continued existence,

Nor suitable for action:

Someone who is attached to whatever is unguarded, discovered by old age, not sickness, and death, torment, all of them, praised by greatness, and by death.
I saw all my sickness was unbroken, hidden, and poisoned. All dead, repelled by all the troubles, suffering, calm, and accurates. All is suffering, what is unhappy, drunking, undesirable, and is unhappy.

“ gain and loss, fame and disgrace,
“Gain and loss, fame and disgrace,

praise and blame, and pleasure and pain.

These qualities among people are impermanent,
Amongst human beings these things are impermanent,

transient, and perishable.”

I wasn’t keen or poised,
I’d never poisoned.

The Buddha replied,

“The world is infinite

spread out in every direction.

in regard to the continuation of existence.
for continued existence,

I didn’t enjoy myself.”
My food has been brought out.”

and he’s regarded the hunter.
The darkness in the waves,

as I saw me,
having seen (him), I had taken up discontent.

seeing the dart of doubt.
and seeing the dart of grief,

so hard to see, hidden in the heart.

and he’s regarded it as an ocean.
This is the concept in the realm of wide opening.

all those whom you dislike. They suffer undergone life, and don’t get ill will.
all the world’s old age, sickness, and death. He passes away with gets all kinds of illness.

But while consuming in the same way,
But while he is still conceived.

The vanity of the sickness is falling away from old age, death, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
The very same warrior, warding off the old age, hatred, aging, aging, fame, and wounding to their life. Being unable to maintain sentient beings who desire material possessions, honor, and popularity. They don’t oppose loss of fame and oppose loss of their life forces and fame, praised by various sentient beings.

and he’s regarded the hunter.
The darkness in the waves,

I’ve seen that you desire.
having seen (him), I desire (it).

Seeing him, they keep charming and becoming discovering. They discovered and undeveloped, and then lost,
Seeing that, they saw him, and developed him.

And after seeing (her), he said:
Having seen (her), after seeing him lying there,

I’m discontent and dissatisfied, with the dissatisfaction, and the elephant’s neglection.
I’m dissatisfied, by discontent and dissatisfaction, and when I’m dissatisfied.

as I saw me,
having seen (him), I had taken up discontent.

seeing the dart,
of seeing that dart is the dart of doubt;

Then they give rise to confidence in those without it ...

Without asking:
Without first:

Amongst those beings
Then for those beings,

Seven darts

Those who had dissatisfied with lust, clung to, sixteen containers, and darts adornments, and conducive to heaven.
Those full of passion, with dart drawn nearby, and skill in view.

Seeing them,
Seeing danger, they see them.

seeing the dart of doubt.
and seeing the dart of grief,

dropped in the heart.
In the heart

They’re hard to give, hard to admonish, and having bad friends. They reveal themselves badly given up.
They’re hard to see, hard to understand, hard to comprehend, and hard to comprehend.

hard to see, hard to understand,
hard to see, subtle, hard to pass.

the mind is what is meant.

mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact are conscious.
Whatever the mind element is related to the mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind consciousness.

When the heart is scattered and diffused, produced by oneself and another, went together with the Saṅgha of mendicants. It is one kind of basis, its origin, and its cessation.
When the heart is overcome and mired in the heart, and together with a mind associated with the heart, it went together with a single object, and conversed to the cessation of the heart.

so hard to see, hidden in the heart.

The Buddha replied,

“This is the only way to catch up
“This is the confluence heat of the ocean,

as I saw me,
having seen (him), I had taken up discontent.

seeing the dart of doubt.
and seeing the dart of grief,

so hard to see, hidden in the heart.”
so hard to see.”

through whomever he has crossed over the flood,
by which it crosses the dart?

warding off all directions:
all directions:

Understanding the dart of doubt
When you poisoned a dart,

They don’t sit down.
doesn’t sit hurriedly,

Where they are darters, running all quarters.
Where darts: all directions, in all directions,

Earth has the dart of doubt
The dart of animals,

Seven darts:

Those who had dissatisfied with lust, clung to, sixteen containers, and darts adornments, and conducive to heaven.
Those full of passion, with dart drawn nearby, and skill in view.

What is the dart of greed?
What is loving greed?

Greed, greed, hate, and delusion.
Greed is a root of greed.

This is the dart of passion.
This is my dart.

What is the dart of hate?
What is loving hate?

‘They will do wrong to me’ ...
‘They will do wrong to me,’ they say, “They are harming me.” ...

But the feathers are unhappy, thinking,
and upset, the trapped cast the mind.

This is the dart of hate.
This is my dart.

What is the dart of delusion?
What is skill in delusion?

not knowing suffering. ...

Not knowing the past, not knowing the future, not knowing the past and the future,
Not knowing the practice leading to the cessation of suffering in the past, not knowing the future, not knowing the past and the future, not having comprehended them with right wisdom.

Anyone who doesn’t see clearly not comprehending such things as this. The underlying tendency for ignorance is unbroken, transgressed, ignorance is produced by ignorance, by ignorance and fettered by ignorance.
Such is the underlying tendencies of seeing, not unbroken, false views, doubt, conceit, the desire to be reborn, and ignorance. Delusion is their root, ignorance. Death is their end. Ignorance is a dispelling the underlying tendency to ignorance. Delusion is ignorance, unshakable, and ignorance.

This is the dart of delusion.

What is the dart of conceit?
What is minor?

“I am better”, “I am the conceit “I am”; “I am this”, “I am this”, “I am this”,
“I am Sakka,” he replied, “I am the conceit ‘I am’, “I am this’, ‘I am this’, ‘I am this’.

Mendicants, such conceit are stainless, fickle, scurrilous, and loose-tongued minds.
Anyone who thinks such conceit is stainless: he’s spending the vanity of conceit, arrogant, and abstention regarding the mind as getting taken as excessive.

This is the dart of conceit.
This is mind-made body.

What is their nature?
What is view?

Ten bases of identity view, ten kinds of voting tickets, and ten bases of views are not attached.
Ten grounds for identity views, ten bases of identity view, ten kinds of wrong view, ten bases of wrong view.

That kind of view is attached to it, holding the recipient of view, holding it as the recipient, and underlying tendencies. Their view is attached to it, holding the recipient, and underlying tendencies.
the view of such views, the recipients, the recipients of views, the recipients of the wrong view, the repulsion, the opportunity, the recipients of views, the recipients. From this view gives rise to wrong view. with wrong view, the recipients the recipients of the Way to the Thirty.

This is the dart of views.
This is their view.

What is sorrow?

To one touched by misfortune regarding relatives, who experienced by loss of wealth, or to loss of health, or to sorrow and lamentation, pain.
To one touched by misfortune regarding relatives, who experienced suffering, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

This is therrow of grief.
This is the stream:

What is adornment?
What is adorned with skin?

doubt regarding suffering, its origin, its cessation, and the practice that leads to its cessation.

In such a way there are two kinds of doubt, uncertainty, declaration, and uncertainty-explains. In the case of the mind interest of the description, opposite sex.
Such is the uncertainty of doubt, uncertainty, and any doubt about the origin of doubt, which has no doubt about the world, its opposite sex. It’s only because of uncertainty, and two endlessness.

he has completed the journey.
he has completed the task as arrow.

Where they are darters, running all quarters.
Where darts: all directions, in all directions,

They do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.
Greed with greed, hate, delusion, holds himself up, and encourages others to do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

All these is how it runs out.
This being so, the touch of fierce discomfort running all the grasses, the transmigration running all over them.

Or alternatively, it fleds off by the corners.
Or alternatively, being touched by those droping, finished by wind and sun, and refuted by the ocean.

flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles throughout the whole of the path. When it goes to the root of Terugh, it goes along the mass of feces, urine, spittle, shrine, pearls, and wounds. It goes to the root of portions.
Touches the path of cold, heat, hunger, and thirst for the air, twisted in front of me, with a shade of furnished vine,. When it goes through the air, the flame of a turbans, youthfully go through the air, the enemy, youthfully. You’re embarks tail flying through the air, adorning the ground, adornments of the whole earth, and the nest.

I won’t get it.
if they were to obtain it with no scoop or roots and trees, but experience pain and sadness because of this, people would not beat me.

When they experience the cattle, the sorrow and lamentation, pain and sadness cease.
Their cowherds would be cattleed and joyful, and they experienced pain and sadness.

All these is how it runs out.
This being so, the touch of fierce discomfort running all the grasses, the transmigration running all over them.

with a dart lips ...
with a drop of hate ...

deluded ...
delusion ...

They drive themselves withdrawn in body, speech, and mind. They have wrong view. And they continue to do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.
They act astray by way of body, speech, and mind. They endure these things. They do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They get rid of desires, steal, commit sexual misconduct, lie, or use alcoholic drinks that cause negligence.

Absorbed by the conceit ‘I’m transmigrated’, being struck, runnning all over and unloved.
when touched by conceit, running all the tricks, transmigrated, and running on.

To start with, flourished on his views, shakes, urine, excrement, and urine.
When they’re skilled in their view, they don’t have urine, spit, pushing their hands. They don’t drop their hands when they’re dropped.

If he doesn’t consent to food brought for them, or eat in their presence, or where there is a woman who is pregnant, breastfeeding on them when rod or a man invites him to eat, or where there is a woman who is pregnant, breastfeeding, or who has a man in her home; or where there’s a dog waiting or flies buzzing.
You don’t consent to a potter. They don’t consent to food brought to him in their presence; or where there is a woman who is pregnant, breastfeeding, or who has a man invited them to eat more when there is a woman who is pregnant, or who has a man in her home; or where there’s a dog waiting or flies buzing. They accept no fish or meat or liquor or wine, and drink no beer.

It’s not easy to get me, nor is my father’s flesh,
if it is not easy to satisfy, ~ nor for me to drink alcohol;

They go to just one house for alms, taking just one mouthful, or two houses and two mouthfuls, up to seven houses and seven mouthfuls.

They go to a house for seven days, or to seven days.
Sentient beings are invited to beings.

They feed on one saucer a day, two saucers a day, up to two saucers a day.
They feed on one saucer a day, two saucers a day,

if he gets seven mouths a day,
if he gets seven things;

They eat once a day, once every second day, up to once a week, and so on, even up to once a fortnight.

he eats once a day,
They eat once a day, once every second day,

They live pursuing the practice of eating food at set intervals.

Such a view falters and urine. He transmigrates, and runs and transmigrates, innerrupts and runs on it.
That is how this view comes up.

Or they eat the grass or sticks, dust on their eyes, or they eat the dust on their bodies, eating fallen fruit, or eating fallen fruit.
Then, when they’re shaking their views, stomach with their territory, fear, horn, mirror, or getting strands or eating fallen fruit, or eating fallen fruit.

They wear robes of sunn hemp, mixed hemp, corpse-wrapping cloth, rags, lodh tree bark, antelope hide (whole or in strips), kusa grass, bark, wood-chips, human hair, horse-tail hair, or owls’ wings.
They wear robes of sunn hemp, mixed hemp, corpse-wrapping cloth, rags, lodh tree bark, antelope hide (whole or in strips), kusa grass, bark, wood-chips, human hair, horse-tail hair, horse-tail hair, or owls’ wings.

They built up a seat, committed to the practice of eating food, drink, clothes, and beds. They build a hut on a sheet. They use speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical. And they’re coper, wherever they’re couple, committed to interval, and loose-tongued.
They built the seats, committed to the practice of making amends for leftovers and seats. They built the right squatting on the heels. They feel committed to the practice of eating and drinking the food, drink, clothes, and beds and benches. They’re indulgent and squatting on the bare ground. They’re committed to the practice of eating food, drink, clothes, and bedrooms, and even when eating. They win the pleasures are restroom, they eat the one sitting pertaining.

They live committed to the practice of mortifying their body.
They live pursuing the practice of mortifying their body.

Such a view falters and urine. He transmigrates, and runs and transmigrates, innerrupts and runs on it.
That is how this view comes up.

They sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
As they do so, they sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Once upon a time right here in Sāvatthī a certain woman’s mother passed away.

And because of that she went mad and lost her mind. She went from street to street and from square to square saying,

‘Has anyone seen my mother? Has anyone seen my mother?’

Once upon a time right here in Sāvatthī a certain woman’s father ...

brother ...
died. ...

sister ...

You died. ...

daughter ...

husband passed away.

And because of that she went mad and lost her mind. She went from street to street and from square to square saying,

‘Has anyone seen my husband? Has anyone seen my husband?’

Once upon a time right here in Sāvatthī a certain man’s mother ...

And because of that he went mad and lost his mind. He went from street to street and from square to square saying,

‘Has anyone seen my mother? Has anyone seen my mother?’

Once upon a time right here in Sāvatthī a certain man’s father ...

brother ...
died. ...

sister ...

You died. ...

daughter ...

wife passed away.

And because of that he went mad and lost his mind. He went from street to street and from square to square saying,

‘Has anyone seen my wife? Has anyone seen my wife?’

Once upon a time right here in Sāvatthī a certain woman went to live with her relative’s family.

But her relatives wanted to divorce her from her husband and give her to another, but she doesn’t want to give it.
But her relatives wanted to divorce her from her husband and give her to another, and she doesn’t want to give it.

And she said to her husband,

‘These Sakyans are relatives, but we’ll die together.’
‘These, masters, are my relatives and kin! We’ll die!’

The man then cut off the big and confused himself, saying,
The man then cut off the bad and experts that woman by himself,

‘We shall be together after death.’”

Understanding like this, he transmigrates and stands firm and runs over it.
So though he’s transmigrated by the touched, he readily transmigrates, and he falters and runnning out.

After examining it in a thicket of transmigration, he dried up and robbed by boat.
He has done what has been stored indoors in a shade, he is transmigrated by an expert on the ground, he is risky,

“Did I exist in the past? Due to the future? What will I be in the past? How will I be in the past? After being what, what will I become in the past?’
“Did I exist in the past? Did I not exist in the past? What were I in the past? How am I in the past? After being what, what will I become in the future?”

Understanding thus, they trickle, swept away, and transmigrate, and reassured and disaster.
The driven by exciting the tail, the touched by the string and transmigrating, the touching of it.

They choose the dart.
Taking them a dart,

Since they make an end of conditions, the west, the north, the south, east, west, and north.
Since they make an arrow, a dart, west, north, south, above, below, and in-between.

they are absorptions, and they are not given up.
they are absorption and they are not given up.

Because they haven’t given up sharing and fallen into hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, or human worlds.
Because they haven’t given up unconfused, inferiority, superior, near to the underworld, hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm.

Where they are crossed over the ocean, that is in all directions.
Where darts: all directions, in all directions,

Understanding that dart does not stand,
only to be poisoned, pulled out.

By means of that view, the smallest thing, the flaw of conceit, the conceit ‘I am’, and the fields of conceit are all drawn out from the south. Then they don’t remove their in the west.
The pain pulled out by greed, hate, and delusion. But embarrassing their views, they’d lift up their trembling down to the east, west, north, and creeping them into the south. Then they don’t give them up to the east, the west, and the south.

Since they’ve given up attachments,
they’ve given up thorns,

Because they’ve given up the things that lead to rebirth in hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm. They don’t remote lodgings in hell, or the animal realm, or the ghost realm.
Because they’ve given up unconfused and runned, they don’t go to hell, the animal realm, or the ghost realm. They don’t go to places of loss, bad places, the underworld. The hell. These dear beings, however, did he follows: ‘They’re not exempt from places of loss, the underworld.

Understanding the dart of arrow,
Only then it doesn’t converse

he doesn’t swiftly. He doesn’t walk when they’ve seen, heard, or thought,
he doesn’t swiftly sits or lies down, he doesn’t get rid of repulsion, or he swiftly when he sees.

Understanding that dart doesn’t occur to them,
only blind to the arrow.

The Buddha replied,

The dart has laid it low,
The dart of doubt

warding off all directions:
all directions:

Understanding the dart of doubt
When you poisoned a dart,

they don’t surely acquire more.”
they don’t last long.”

Herein, trained means
Herein, trained in that place:

none of those in the world
For the world’s gains;

don’t be heard of them.
for you wouldn’t be married.

and I’m disillusioned with sensual pleasures.
Experiencing all sensual pleasures

training in regard to extinguishment.
trained in my own training.

Herein, the trainer essentials, etc., are not tied up in the world.
Herein, trained in the world: He trains in materiality,

the training rules on the elephant trainer, the horse trainer, the charioteer, the dart, and the warnings.
trained in the training. Taking the elephants, horses, chariots, infantry, cubs, and swords.

Surrounded by circumstances, singing, music, and performing, they are ruined.
They proclaimed sugarcane, singing, playing instruments, and performing, songs.

winds that are running out, they take hold of them low, sprang up, and proceed tos.
Then they go through the rainy season. And they started to take up their necks, where they go.

Five kinds of sensual stimulation are called
Gaintaining the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

Sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

the five kinds of sensual stimulation are called “ascetics”.
Once they are called the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

By means of the five kinds of sensual stimulation they are called “five kinds of sensual stimulation”.
Remembering the five kinds of sensual stimulation are called a “giver” , delighted of the five kinds of sensual stimulation because they desire—that is to say, sense desires, and greed for the five kinds of sensual stimulation are called sensual stimulation.

He leads to the world of the gods:
A world in the world of the human realm:

Herein, the trainer often essentials in the world,
Herein, trained in the world, ~ and are easily -

don’t be heard about them.
don’t be stretching for you.

Or alternatively, they mightn’t have the five kinds of sensual stimulation on that, or if they’re not committed to it.
Or alternatively, if you’re not committed to the five kinds of sensual stimulation, you might not still fall into that, you won’t have a underlying tendency for that,

don’t be heard of them.
for you wouldn’t be married.

Extinguishment is quenched.
Extinguishment of all sensual pleasures.

although they are penetrated,
Extinguishment:

All conditions are impermanent—

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

Everywhere there is nothing left over, everything without exception, that is,
Everywhere there is all causality, of all that is a term for all.

Everywhere,
Experiencing the whole body:

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

these are called “perfections”.
These are called the defilements that cause.

and I’m disillusioned with sensual pleasures.
Experiencing all sensual pleasures

he trains in extinguishment.
training in regard to quenching,

Three trainings:

The training in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.
the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

For one who has removed greed, hate, and delusion, who is disillusioned with dispassionate and freed. ...
extinguishment,

With the giving up of all unskillful intentions, the higher mind should be trained in for the higher morality of thought, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom. And he should train in these three trainings: these are present in terms of the higher mind.
all unskillful behaviors ...

Do what he should be realized, and he should train in taking care of them. He should undertake and follow the training.
Doing what you should be realized, and avoid what you should train in. You should undertake and follow the training.

training in regard to extinguishment.
trained in my own training.

The Buddha replied,

“Speak the training,
Visākha, the training in the training,

none of those in the world
For the world’s gains;

don’t be heard of them.
for you wouldn’t be married.

and I’m disillusioned with sensual pleasures.
Experiencing all sensual pleasures

and training.”
as you train in extinguishment.”

they may be truthful,
they may be hard to understand.

free of deceit, and rid of slander;

free of greed, hate, and delusion,
free of greed, hate, and delusion.

the sage in the sky
A sage would stand in the sky,

they may be truthful, and make an end.
they’re honest.

Could they be truthful, possessiveness, and right view?
they may be truthful: the noble eightfold path.

they may be truthful,
They may be realized.

Three kinds of dispelling:
Three ways of preventing:

she is disrobed; she is predicted by herself or upperness;
Having made an effort in the presence of a physician, afflicted with a district ...

This is the undefinished practice.
This is the untouchable (merit).

They’ve given up these three things, they’re called ‘one who has cut off the cords and the knowledge of the affairs’.
One who has given up these three things, who has cut off the stream, who is unbroken, imperishable, and whatever they have not given up, they are called a ‘bound’.

they may be truthful,
they may be hard to understand.

free of deceit, and rid of slander;

a magician teacher,
is what is meant by ‘following Māra’.

It’s when someone has done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They’ve wandered in debate, immortality, integrity, and intelligent. They think:
It’s when someone does bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell. Don’t think, ‘May they know me as’!’

Such things as mother, drinking, chewing, and tasting, and tailing,
Such things as months, drink, clothing, vehicles, beds, fickles, and preventing. They cover themselves with garlands, perfumes, and makeup.

This is called Māra.

Because this is called a residue from the round of rebirths, because the surmounting of opposite sex.
One who has abandoned these things, who has cut off the root, made them like a palm stump, obliterated them, and unable to arise in the future—this is called “explains”.

Some people speak divisively ...
some people use divisive speech. ...

if he carries on, thinking in this way;
if he carries it on in this way;

He has cut off progress and has gone beyond the vicinity of fear and dread of knowledge, and wide, respect and veneration with knowledge and vision, and adhered to pass.
They’ve been given up and cut off, destroyed what has been cut off, and gone beyond the stream of radiance, doing a fine wound, with a spot, which is called a “complished”.

free of deceit, and rid of slander;

because you free from greed, free and remote greed, which would be led away,
which frees the poison, ~ one who,s things led on to the air,

It’s untrue and anger that you should say:
It is because they don’t get angry that anger you should be told.

In ten ways:

‘They did wrong to me,’ ...
“They are doing wrong to me,” ...

He’s called an impediment because he has been cut off, destroyed, broken, dropped, and aggregates are called knowledge.
One who has given up anger, resembling the unbroken knowledge, gets dropped on, gets rid of getting rid of greed, hate, and delusion—this is called.

When they’ve given up anger, enmity, and ill will, irritability, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, and deviousness.
When they’ve given up anger, enmity and ill will, and hostility are irritable and hostile.

greed, hate, and delusion.

greed, root and all.
Greed is the root of covetousness,

The five kinds of stinginess is what is meant.
These are called the five kinds of stinginess.

Stinginess with dwellings ...

stinginess is what is meant.
Stinginess is what is meant.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
knowledge of delusion is called the Sage who is called a sage of being inclusive,

because you free from greed, free and remote greed, which would be led away,
which frees the poison, ~ one who,s things led on to the air,

The mild one is transmigration with the five points, and forgotten going beyond coming back.
The shade of the five kinds of greed and the proliferation, reckoned as proliferation.

free from greed, free from hatred, free from delusion, which makes his head resplendent.
(Whoever) is free from greed, free from hatred, free from delusion,

The Buddha replied,

“For he who has given up wickedness,
“Having given up the truth,

free of deceit, and rid of slander;

free of greed, hate, and delusion,
free of greed, hate, and delusion.

as I’m the sage who can cross over.”
have you come to roast in the next life.”

Sleep in the heavens.
Sleep in the heaven of Vedas.

don’t abide in negligence,

Still they couldn’t stand too far,
it doesn’t stand too far,

extinguishment is his mind-made,
extinguishment is the outcome of extinguishment.

Sleep pushysicians crums.
sleepinessed slowly,

Approaching: the body that is produced by immoral, great, has agitated, well-proported, well-presed, well-made, and well-presed.
Their body is produced, good intimate, dispersed, bright, torpor, adorned with worms, and swept away.

fine during the very sphere of hollow Count Vediya, and the Thushampion, which washed by loftyragrant people, then produced by arranging neck,
loving dust and dirt,

Whatever good things are unprotected, unaccomplished, sluggish mind, blending on a robbing mind, sluggish mind, and keeping it connected.
Whatever inferior is superior, beautiful, that is good in mind, quite secluded from sense desires, dreadfulness, and radiating;

Sleep pushysicians crums.
sleepinessed slowly,

If anyone were to poison over and run out, the crack would run out,
They’d oppressed, eradicated, and infatuated to the hopes, in the neighborhood, and frugal posts.

Sleep in the heavens.
Sleep in the heaven of Vedas.

don’t abide in negligence,

Negligence should be said to others,
he should be said to be embarrassed in bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind.

Don’t you have the intention to give rise to skillful qualities, or to get rid of the underlying tendencies. It’s not easy to get rid of the noble ones, and it’s not neglected.
Your mind is eagerness for the arising of unskillful qualities. You hope that skillful qualities have not yet cultivated, but doing acts of having the noble ones. Your teaching is not neglected with the noble ones. Your wielding the many kinds of worry. You’ve already developed and cultivated mindfulness and situational awareness.

alcoholic drinks that cause negligence.
The one who is heedless and negligently.

This is called negligence.
This is called the negligence.

They don’t neglect
don’t live together with a heart like this. They’d neglect abide in negligence. They’d tendons, wide in fact, give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts. They’d live rid of the stain of, liberating, praised by sensible people, not mistaken, and give them up.

don’t abide in negligence,

If he stands too far,
it doesn’t last,

It is someone who does not think it’s simply impossible for them to have any offense or grounded.
It is someone who does not have doubt or uncertainty about one or other of their births.

Mendicants, such conceit are stainless, fickle, scurrilous, and loose-tongued minds.
Anyone who thinks such conceit is stainless: he’s spending the vanity of conceit, arrogant, and abstention regarding the mind as getting taken as excessive.

This is called what is meant.
This is called what is called ‘not idiot’.

If he stands too far,
it doesn’t last,

It wouldn’t be surely stopped, tends, twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, or a hundred years.
It’s not possible that they won’t give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts. They’d live unattained, liberated, detached, liberated, my mind free of limits.

Still they couldn’t stand too far,
it doesn’t stand too far,

extinguishment is his mind-made.
extinguishment is the outcome of extinguishment.

One person who does the observance-day procedure and the sabbath of the observance-day procedure, while eating fallen under the shrine, is held out of the shrines, and aiming at the root of a shrine, and aiming at the root of this shrine, etc., does not get the reason for the sake of extinguishment.
It’s when someone gives a gift to anyone who is ethical ...

(but) for extinguishment this is called Nibbāna.
Such is the face of extinguishment

Or he focuses his mind on the deathless element and applies his mind to the deathless:
Or he focuses his mind on the deathless element.

“This is peaceful; this is sublime—that is, the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.”

(but) for extinguishment this is called Nibbāna.
Such is the face of extinguishment

“It’s not easy for the astute,
“One who’s not clinging to the pleasure of attachments,

giving gifts and future lives.
giving gifts to future lives,

But their destination, and end;
Of attachment to sensual pleasures,

giving gifts and not reborn,
You don’t give gifts,

Wise don’t get happiness
The astute do not exist in attachments

developed the absorptions,
develop the absorptions,

But their destination, and end;
Of attachment to sensual pleasures,

Developing the state of existence,
developed the state of existence,

They gave away his hearts.
When they gave their hearts,

Those whose minds are free here,
Their mind is liberated,

as the rivers bring them to the ocean.
The ocean sea, just as the ocean,

they are bound to extinguishment.”
you’re reborn in the next life.”

extinguishment is his mind-made,
extinguishment is the outcome of extinguishment.

The Buddha replied,

“Stinginess, slander, and play
“So what’s left behind you have come.

don’t abide in negligence,

Still they couldn’t stand too far,
it doesn’t stand too far,

extinguishment is curbed.”
extinguishment is the outcome of extinguishment.”

you should not cling to delusion,
No blameworthy things,

don’t get angry even when provoked.
in the formless, he should not get made.

He should completely understand the conceits,
He should completely understand the conceit ‘I am’,

Delighting in mind,
Inhabited earth, shameless,

After difficulty in delusion, not outlets,
Who doesn’t lead out,

Delusion is what is meant.

It’s when someone is summoned to a council, an assembly, a family meeting, a guild, or to the royal court, and asked to bear witness:
It may be that someone is summoned to a council, an assembly, a family meeting, a guild, or to the royal court, and asked to bear witness:

“Come, mister, what you know.”
“Come friend, what you know.”

He says, “I’ll know what you are.”
Not knowing he says, “I’ll know it.”

knowing he says “I don’t know.”

they said, “I’ll see a thing.”
Not seeing he says, “I’ll see anyone.”

Seeing him, he said: “I won’t know.”
Or he says, “I saw it.”

So they tell a deliberate lie for the sake of themselves or another, or for the sake of their own sake of another, saying:
So they tell a deliberate for the sake of themselves or others.

This is called delusion.
This is called the blameless.

However, he lies in full awareness, saying:
... when three conditions are fulfilled ...

...

... when five conditions are fulfilled ...
when five conditions are fulfilled ...

when six conditions are fulfilled ...

... when seven conditions are fulfilled ...

when eight conditions are fulfilled ...

These are the eight ways that lies.

Without delusion, out of desire,
Who doesn’t lead out,

wouldn’t give up delusion. They’d neglect each other, and they’d give up confusion. They’d meditate with a mind free of delusion and thoughts. They’d lose these things.
Then they don’t lead out, neglect, and enjoy themselves. They’d give up confusion, but don’t get rid of understanding. They’d meditate spreading a heart full of delusion. They’d live unattained, liberated, detached, liberated, with a mind free of limits.

you should not cling to delusion,
No blameworthy things,

don’t get angry even when provoked.

The four great elementals and bodily-form derived from the great elementals.
The four primary elements, and form derived from the four primary elements.

don’t get angry even when provoked.

They wouldn’t make any desire, fondness, thirst, passion, or craving for form. They wouldn’t be reborn in hell,
They don’t make any effort to have any desire, greed, or fondness, or thirst. They’d be reborn in hell, nor do they arouse greed or hate.

don’t get angry even when provoked.
in the formless, still (anothers) do not arise in what is.

Should give him the trial period:
Should give:

Conceit, trial period:
Conceit, and striving.

and the fatigue in the mind.
and the mind becomes decayed.

Ten kinds of conceit:
Ten conceits:

As a result,
Asleeping oneself,

Sleep in the mango tree,
Sleep in the mangoes of others,

Three conceits:
Three kinds of conceit:

“I’m better than conceit.”
“I’m better than myself.”

“I’m equal,”
“I am like the conceit ‘I am’.”

“I’m worse”.
“I’m worse.”

Four kinds of conceit:
Four conceits:

and by gaining material possessions.
who transgresses people.

honors the fame.
who realizes fame by conceit,

and countless people.
people praiseworthy.

by happiness and folk.
by happiness and generation.

Five kinds of conceit:
Five conceits:

“I am pleasing sights, Master Gotama.”

“... My ear ...
“I used to hear the sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...
Tastes ...

touches and thoughts.”
people don’t enjoy tangibles.”

Six classes of rebirth:
Six precepts:

the eye proficient in the world.
the Standing to see,

They’re accomplished in ethical conduct ...
They become accomplished in ethical conduct ...

The nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

physical endurance ...
the physical contact ...

.
mind which gives rise to knowledge.

Seven kinds of conceit:

They’re inferior.
They bear their final body,

conceit ‘I am’.
Conceit, inferiority complex,

The conceit of superiority,
The inferiority

Remembering the world
From whomever he goes to,

overestimation,
obstinately sticking to it,

I am the conceit ‘I am’.
I am the one who stops

wrong mindfulness,
Wrong effort is wrong.

Eight matures:
Eight years:

and by gaining material possessions.
who transgresses people.

if people don’t gain anything
people overcome by gain and loss,

honors the fame.
who realizes fame by conceit,

those people despise it with non-human beings.
by non-human beings.

and countless people.
people praiseworthy.

looking after those people overcome by blame,
those people blameworthy.

by happiness and folk.
by happiness and generation.

those people hurt themselves.
those who are hurt by suffering,

Nine kinds of conceit.

such a thing as: “I am better, I am conceit!”
that is to say: “I am better than conceit, I am bound by conceit.”

such as: “I am like I am conceit!”
that is to say: “I am such-and-such a one.”

such as: “I am I am conceit!”
that is to say: “I am inferior”;

remembering, “I am better”,
remembering, “I am better than myself”.

anyone like me is equal or conceit.
anyone like me, I am the one like me.

who thinks “I’m worse, I’m conceited.”
but I am worse.

immeasurable, “I am better”,
It is better than that.

they say, “I am better’, ‘I am conceit’.”
it is lower, “I am the vicinity of conceit.”

“I’m worse”.
“I am worse’.”

Ten kinds of conceit:

It’s when someone goes to live with birth or it’s normally, or it is to say: ‘You have no ground or ethics.’
It may be that people with clansman or based on birth, or with one of the people or other.

Mendicants, such conceit are stainless, fickle, scurrilous, and loose-tongued minds.
Anyone who thinks such conceit is stainless: he’s spending the vanity of conceit, arrogant, and abstention regarding the mind as getting taken as excessive.

This is called conceit.

Should give him the trial period:
Should give:

Completely understanding three things:
After completely understands the three kinds of trial period:

completely understanding relatives,
for they understand

They completely understand.
for which they completely understand.

Completely understanding the perception of giving up,
for the direct knowledge,

What is completely understood?
What is the end of relatives?

They know that conceit has one thing.
This one thing, taking once, knows that it’s given up.

and the fatigue in the mind.
and the mind becomes decayed.

This is the two kinds of conceit.

Scrifice ...
reprimanding themselves to others ...

This finishing is the ten kinds of conceit.
This is the ten kinds of conceit.

It’s when someone knows that it’s due respect to birth or has one or other of these people.
It’s when someone knows people with respect to be reborn, or does one or other of these people.

This is the completely understood.
this is the end of relatives.

What are the three completely understood?
What are the three perils that completely understand?

After doing this, it gives rise to suffering as impermanent ...
After giving up this relatives as suffering,

What is the escape from sound.
Regarding an escape from it:

This is the completely understood.
This is the way of completely understanding.

What, which, having completely understood?
What is the completely understanding of giving up?

After giving up conceit, ‘I am’, and getting rid of it.
After giving up three conceits, they give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts.

This is the completely understanding of giving up.
This is the end of giving up.

And he maintains these three kinds of trial period:
These six classes of rebirth:

He should completely understand the conceits,
He should completely understand the conceit ‘I am’,

Inhabited earth, trickling and devious.
Inhabited earth, they argue,

What is that temperament?
What is wealth?

For one of greedy temperament there is sure that in one of greedy temperament,
For one of greedy temperament temperament wears his rich conduct,

For one who lives by way of body, speech, and mind,
For one who is bad temperament and temperament

Deluded by delusion, temperament, deluded by delusion,
Deluded by delusion, temperament, deluded temperament.

For one who is bound by anger,
For one whose mind is bound,

Delighting views, conduct,

After excessive conduct, conduct,
One who has displayed the conduct, one whose conduct,

Understanding uncertainty,
For one whose mind is unshakable and uncertainty,

Wearious conduct that is proper, and we practiced,
We practice the meditation of conduct by way of body, speech, and mind.

This temperament is handed down here.
This is the temperament of conduct.

In fact, driven out the scope of terrified, embracing, and insistence, they’d say, ‘May they get to know the good.’
She’d wander in the wilderness, composes of servants, employed, and draws out the opposite sex. Then they’d live secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities.

Delighting in mind,
Inhabited earth, shameless,

The Buddha replied,

“Realizing for joy, you should not dedicate
“Realizing for joy, you should not lead out,

don’t get angry even when provoked.
in the formless, he should not get made.

He should completely understand the conceits,
He should completely understand the conceit ‘I am’,

possessing what’s good.”
good people live together.”

Don’t approve,
One should not delight in old age,

don’t get angry even when provoked.

If you don’t purity,
If you don’t sorrow

The space would not be slack;
The space doesn’t smile to lax,

Does not contemplate:

past form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
is said to be old-age in the past, feelings are called consciousness,

choices ...

Don’t approve,
One should not delight in old age,

don’t get angry even when provoked.

Such is called form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
is said to be the perceptions of form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.

They wouldn’t be reborn in the present, yet they wouldn’t generate enthusiasm, try, make an effort, expel, or produced by craving.
They wouldn’t be reborn in the present, or the attributes of craving for views, nor do they argue, nor would they be reborn in hell,

don’t get angry even when provoked.

If the other person is lost:
If the robe-cloth is lost:

When the Buddha was being given up, they would not sorrow or wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
When this happens, when the streams are current and the wailing, lamenting, regaining, and wailing, they’d not sorrow or wail or lament.

when the eye is being made, they vanish, and disappeared.
(They are) being continuously, when the eyes are cursing out of the Sights,

I’ve given up desire for the ear ...
I’m the ear ...

nose ...
The nose ...

tongue ...

body ...
the body ...

As for form,

When you’ve heard about sounds ...
The Realized One has given up desire for sounds ...

smells ...
smells,

desire for tastes ...
tastes ...

touches ...

the family traditions ...
the family ...

with a group ...

a monastery that’s ...
adverting

...

reputation ...
fame, reputation, and striving

praise ...

Pleasant is the pleasure
Pleasanting ...

“I’ll wear the robe” ...
a robe ...

alms-food ...

dwellings ...

When sick monks are being disturbed. They don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. And when this happens, they’d lose their breast and fall into confusion.
When sick monks are circumstances were being finished, they sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. They wouldn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

If you don’t purity,
If you don’t sorrow

The space doesn’t smile.

craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

the shelter is what is meant.
the craving for the ground is what is meant.

Whatever form he becomes straying with craving for form, and entered upon it,
He enters by craving for form, and takes pleasure in it.

They regard feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness ...

Making decision ...
exertion ...

rebirth ...
their rebirth ...

If you slander yourself ...
gladness ...

continued existence ...

transmigration ...

he takes it together with his group in goes to move it, if he grabs it;
he enters a group and enjoys it, and takes pleasure in it.

at the root of the space is what is meant.

The space doesn’t smile.

not dependent on craving.
they may not be attached to craving.

Then they’d give up craving, eliminate dispel craving, reaching the end of craving, and unruffled. They’d meditate in an open mind, unattached, liberated, free of limits.
Then they’d give up craving, dispelling, and get rid of craving. They’d meditate without graspinging the scriptures, habits, liberating, praised by sensible people, not mistaken, and leading to mind.

The space would not be slack;
The space doesn’t smile to lax,

The Buddha replied,

“Do not delight in men,
“Don’t delight in ending;

don’t get angry even when provoked.

If you don’t purity,
If you don’t sorrow

The space would not slack.”
you won’t scatter at the space.

I declare, Mahaka,
I declare them the sweat,

I declare, ageing,
I call a victor,

making a meditation object
Having entered upon a meditation subject,

With the doubt of sensual pleasures,
With the range of sensual pleasures,

I call a sweat, Mahaka.
I declare it is the sweat, Mahaka.

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

I call a sweat, Mahaka.
I declare it is the sweat, Mahaka.

May I explain, “I declare!”
May I explain, “I declare, winter, I explain, teach,” “I declare, reveal it, make it clear, open it, analyze it, and reveal it.

I declare, Mahaka,
I declare them the sweat,

They call up old age and death,
I call a victor, I say.

they give up craving.
craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

grounds for craving is what is meant.
ground is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

They say, “I declare, Victorious, old age, and death.” ...
They say, ‘I declare  old age’, ‘I declare Joyfully.’ ... “I declare this to you, ‘I don’t reveal it.” ...

I declare, ageing,
I call a victor,

making a meditation object
making a meditation subject for him,

Also this object is called craving.
Also the object of craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

also craving is what is meant.
are what is meant.

Greed, hate, and delusion.
Greed ...

making a meditation object
Having entered upon a meditation subject,

they’re hard to satisfy
You’re hard to get hold of.

Someone who has given up sensual pleasures, miserable and unshakable, swamped by sensual pleasures, miserable and sad, with a hard to go beyond.
Deluded from the Kāmada, who has given up the defilements of sensuality, desire to be reborn, and ignorance. That’s hard to pass away and is hard to go beyond.

With the range of sensual pleasures,

The Buddha replied,

“I declare the going forth, the great flood,
“I declare the vast a great flood,

I declare, ageing,
I call a victor,

making a meditation object
Having entered upon a meditation subject,

like birds in the pleasures of the senses.
have given up the essences of sensual pleasures.

truthful, sage,
I realized the sages.

the brahmin stands on the ground.
a brahmin stands on the ground.

all is given up,

they are said to be peaceful.
is said to be truly content.

truthful, and self-control.
truthful, released,

Searching the truth, defilements, and right view.
See the Truth: Righteous is the noble eightfold path, possessed of right view, and noble eightfold path.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
They’re called ‘knowledge’.

truthful, sage,
I realized the sages.

a brahmin stands on the ground.

is called the deathless.
groundlessly, quenching, extinguishment.

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

Seven things were spoken to by Brahmā.
Seven things are called a brahmin ...

a brahmin stands on the ground.

They stand, stand,ing, scattering, and persistence, and end in the deathless:
They stand, stand,ing, serving, leaning on which they stand, persisting, and end in the deathless—

the brahmin stands on the ground.
a brahmin stands on the ground.

they stop.
they all give it up.

all twelve sense fields:

The eye and sights ...

mind and thoughts
The mind and thoughts are thoughts.

When they’ve given up desire and greed for the interior sense fields, cut them off at the root, made them like a palm stump, obliterated them, so they’re unable to arise in the future.
When it has been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, that is cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

When craving and conceit have given up the conceit ‘I am’, cut it off at the root, made it like a palm stump, obliterated it, so it’s unable to arise in the future.
When craving and view are given up, they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

When their merit is given up, they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
When their body breaks up, after death, they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

all is given up,

they’re said to be peaceful.
is said to be one who is at peace.

Since it is peaceful, one who is at peace, proclaims what is called Nibbāna, because it is discuss,
Staying, “disease,” he proclaims what is said; he proclaims what is tranquilized, he shows what is called to be done.

they are said to be peaceful.
is said to be truly content.

The Buddha replied,

“Going, sage,
“Go to the sage, said the sage,

the brahmin stands on the ground.
a brahmin stands on the ground.

all is given up,

is said to be peaceful.”
is said to be virtuous.”

is truly a knowledge master,
is the wise, learned, and heroic.

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

they are rightly freed in the world.
for the one who is right there in the world.

nor will he conflict
from those who have no attachments,

is truly a knowledge master,
is the wise, and the learned.

Wise One, knowing the wise, understanding of insight, and intelligent, (thinking):
wise, fully understanding: insight, and intelligent, knowledge arose, and understanding, he is a wise one,

a knowledge master.

They’re called knowledge of the path because they’re free of desire for the four kinds of feeling; they’re freed from all knowledge.
They are called knowledge of the four noble truths; they’re free of greed, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving.

is truly a knowledge master,
is the wise, learned, and heroic.

Knowing this, they give rise to harm.
Knowing the teaching they’re independent.

Having understood (that), he founded and exclaimed (it).
having understood (these), and having understood (them), he subdued the undeveloped, and sancred, he developed (theseer).

Having understood that “(volitional) processes,” and knowing that they were allayed, he despised and perished,
Having understood the impermanence of conditions, he knew the Tissārāma and knowing that allaying, he gave birth to abstain,

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They perished, having understood all things, he censured them, substained them, and removed them.
After understanding that all is the origin of cessation, all that comes to the cessation of all things, he experiences dispelling the whole world with its gods.

Two kinds of support:

Craving, giving up craving,
You’re reborn in a lower realm. ...

This is the ending of craving. ...

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

They give up craving.
They give up craving and giving up. ...

If he lacks a vital condition for the ear ...
...

nose ...

When they have seen, heard, thought, or known something, they don’t haven’t left unguarded, untied, and undisturbed, their mind free of limits.
He has seen the Truth, understood, and penetrated it; he is unshakable, infatuated, unattached, uncorrupted, liberated, detached, his mind free of limits.

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

they are rightly reborn in the world.

When they’ve given up desire and greed for the interior sense fields, they pass away at the root of the dimension of infinite space, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.
When it has been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, that’s how the noble ones is cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.
When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in the future. That’s how they’re cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

they are rightly freed in the world.
for the one who is right there in the world.

nor too linking.
nor for someone who carries off his eyes.

the craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

From the food they’ve given up, cut off craving, untied the bondservants, aristocrats, brahmins, or merchants.
A renowned

nor will he conflict
from those who have no attachments,

The Buddha replied,

Steady in the knowledge,
A knowledge master, swiftly hero,

I understood the teaching.
I understood the teaching, independent,

they are rightly freed in the world.
for the one who is right there in the world.

doesn’t grieve.”
doesn’t grieve or get someone else.”

One who doesn’t run beyond sensual pleasures,
One who has crossed over sensual pleasures,

so hard to get in the world,
unshakable in the world,

does not grieve for it.
you don’t grieve or lament.

with stream cut, unbound.

Whoever has crossed over the world, and is unshakable in the world,
Whoever has crossed the flood in the world who is unshakable and sauce,

Take the one who has gone forth as a king, who has gone forth as a human being, or has reached a peak of duty or to an aristocratic king or a human.
Whoever, of such a kind, of great sacrifice, in whatever place he’s possessed, would he have attained, as much as he likes, aristocrats, brahmins, or merchants.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

Seven ways of being inclusive:

Accomplishment of greed, hate, and delusion, and pursuit of views.
greed, hate, and delusion.

in the world of the human world, in the world of the gods,
in the world of the gods, expert in the world of the gods,

such in the world beyond suffering,
they lead to the Saṅgha.

The one who has crossed over the world difficult to get past, and is hard to surmount and unsurpassable and hard to go beyond.
The one who understands the inclusion of sensual pleasures and the other in the world beyond, got past and more than two women than that.

Whoever has crossed over the world, which is difficult to do in the world,
Whoever has crossed the flood in the world, which is difficult to get past,

doesn’t grieve or lament,
doesn’t pursue it.

for one whose mind is distracted, and it is not about.
Isn’t scattered or diverse spectrum of clothes, but there is no basis for attachment.

eyes ...
eyes are cleared ...

I regard the ear ...
the ear ...

nose ...
the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
the tongue ...

My body is tranquil ...

sights ...

My sounds ...
My ears ...

smells ...
My smells,

...
a taste ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

a family from me. ...
a family ...

sex with a group ...

I’ve given up my dwelling;
I’ve given up illness ...

... “I’ve obtain ...
... “I’ve receivers ...

Anyone who is my son ...
Anyone who is possessed by Yasa ...

my praise ...
my confidence remains ...

My happiness is bliss ...

... “I’ve given up my robe ...
... “I’ve given up my robe ...’ ...

alms-food ...
my alms-food ...

... “I’ve attained the dwelling,” ...
my dwelling ...

...

my mother ...

Father ...
a father ...

a brother ...
‘My brother ...

sister ...

my son ...

daughter ...

I’ve friends ...
my friends ...

ministers ...

my relatives,
relatives ...

Saying, “I’ve devited,” they don’t sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
Saying, “I have no trouble getting deviousness,” and so he doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

doesn’t grieve or lament,
doesn’t grieve or lament.

They don’t coarse or get rid of reciting, and they don’t covetousness.
They don’t covet the point where they don’t covetous. They don’t covet the internal or have it.

Or they’re not born, growing old, dying, passing away, or being reborn.
But they don’t become born and don’t grow old.

His do not despise:
Death doesn’t kill him:

does not grieve for it.
you don’t grieve or lament.

with stream cut, unbound.

this craving is called ‘craving’.
This is called craving.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

They’ve cut off craving, cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

If they’re not bound by greed, hate, and delusion, bonds of jackals, and attachments are given up inside the bonds of sexuality,
for the bonds of greed, hate, and delusion.

For they are called ‘confidence’.
they are called the best of lights:

with stream cut, unbound.

The Buddha replied,

“Whoever sensual pleasures don’t cross over,
“Whoever here has crossed over sensual pleasures,

so hard to get in the world,
unshakable in the world,

does not grieve for it.
you don’t grieve or lament.

with stream cut, unbound.”

You should sex with anyone,
When you should purify yourselves,

do not regret it afterwards (thinking):
do not later on.

if you take up nothing in the present
if you take up nothing in the present,

you will live at peace.

Previously, and have sex with
When you used to be resort

In the past, future, and present.
In the past, future, and present. They’d give up defilements that cause negligence.

Those who should be separated in the past,
Those who still think this,

Or else, when deeds in the past, future, and present have ripened the result of deeds undertaken in the past, future, and present, is an end to suffering.
Or alternatively, when the result of deeds undertaken in the past, future or present, is easy to give up those things.

Those who should be separated in the past,
Those who still think this,

do not say what is that?
do not later on.

future is what is meant.

When those choices might arise in the future, and do not dispel them.
In the future they’d give up greed, hate, and delusion, and thoughts. They’d do not arise in you to do so, unintelligent, and discarded. Understanding, they don’t give up these things.

do not regret it afterwards (thinking):
do not later on.

if you don’t take hold of you;
if you take no one in the middle,

Mind consciousness is what is meant.
Mindfulness is said to be the internal formations of consciousness.

choices ...”
They won’t let go of those choices, nor will I approve of this view.

if you take up nothing in the present
if you take up nothing in the present,

you will live at peace.

because they have become greedy.
because they’ve been satisfied by greed.

Because they’re accomplished in hate ...
Because they are accomplished in hate ...

being skilful, skilled in the case of the absence of perception, attained Nibbāna, and because it is peaceful.
being skilful in all-seeing, calming at peace, insight, awakening, and equanimity and attainments with insight due to the ending of defilements.

you will live at peace.

The Buddha replied,

“Whatever (thought) you should devote yourself,
“Whatever (is said) about in the past,

do not regret it afterwards (thinking):
do not later on.

if you take up nothing in the present
if you take up nothing in the present,

you will live at peace.”

One who has no sense of ownership

They have no ties,
But nothing that’s strike,

who does not grieve for that which is lost,

they’re not born in the world,

Endowed to name and form,
Excellents don’t exist in anywhere.

Everywhere there is nothing left over, everything without exception, that is,
Everywhere there is all causality, of all that is a term for all.

Everywhere,
Experiencing the whole body:

the four formless constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.
formless and formless.

The four great elementals and bodily-form derived from the great elementals.
The four primary elements, and form derived from the four primary elements.

For the one who has ended the defilements,
whose defilements have ended;

The two months of the hot season:
two months are my father:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

One who has no such name and form in such name and form have no thought.
For one of name and form are not exist in any one of their name and form, there is no peace of mind.

One who has no name and form,
One who has no sense of ownership or of mind.

who does not grieve for that which is bad.
who does not grieve for that which is lost,

for one whose mind is distracted, and it is not about.
Isn’t scattered or diverse spectrum of clothes, but there is no basis for attachment.

“My eyes are disturbed,” nor does he grieve
knowing: “My eye is clear, I do not grieve.”

I regard the ear ...
the ear ...

nose ...
the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
the tongue ...

My body is tranquil ...

sights ...

My sounds ...
My ears ...

smells ...
My smells,

...
a taste ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

a family from me. ...
a family ...

sex with a group ...

I’ve given up my dwelling;
I’ve given up illness ...

My gain ...
Please accept ...

“My decays and perishes.” They don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
Saying, “I have no trouble getting deviousness,” and so he doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

Or they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

Or they’d touch him by the eye. ...
Or they touched by the eye. ...

They don’t sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion. And they don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion because they don’t get those material possessions.
They don’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion because they don’t get those material possessions. They don’t sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

Or alternatively, if it doesn’t exist, he might not get into it, saying: “Oh, I’m not liberating, and lamenting and falling into confusion.”
Or alternatively, if these non-human beings weren’t found in me, they wouldn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

you won’t grieve or lament,
So too, one who never grieves

they’re not born in the world,

“They know whether this is the connection with the other, this is included in feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness that came up in that lodging.
what is suitable, what is the, this is the, this is the case.” (There is) a suitable way of regarding form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness that comes to be.

And it’s appropriate for him to say:
The Buddha has said,

“A morsel is a charioteer, a gem of jeweled earrings,
“A chariot is archery, adornments,

right there and children,
or like a child,

When all used to be riches,
For all of these dangers:

Why do you not get at the time?
why do you not get at the time?

they give up death in the past,
they give up death first,

dying a mortal abandoned (and killed) the elder.
dying a mortal abandoned their former wealth;

Wealth is not eternal, O Lover of Yourself,

therefore I do not grieve at the wrong time,
That’s why I do not grieve at the wrong time.

The moon rises, becoming full, and then wanes again,

The sun after blazing sun
The sun after blazing the sun

I have dispelled the world, Seer, who knows the world,
may the world be destroyed by me, ~ -

I do not grieve at the wrong time.”
that’s why I do not grieve at the wrong time.”

“They have no connection with this, this is included in form.”
what I have said: “This is the through this, this is the case. Their feeling is tied, infatuated, and attached to it. Choices are included in feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness is mine. But there is no further.

And it’s appropriate for him to say:
The Buddha has said,

“Do you delight, ascetic?”

‘What have I gained, reverend?’
‘What have I gained, sir?’

‘Well then, ascetic, do you urg me?’
‘Well then, ascetic, you’re sorrowing.’

‘What have I lost, reverend?’
‘What have I lost, sir?’

‘Well then, ascetic, do you neither delight nor sorrow?’

‘Yes, friend.’

‘After a long time we see

a brahmin extinguished.

A mendicant free of delight and misery,

he has crossed over clinging to the world.’”
he’s crossed over clinging to the world.’”

they’re not born in the world,

The Buddha replied,

“In all name and form,
“For he who has nothing in all mind and body,

They have no ties,
But nothing that’s strike,

who does not grieve for that which is lost,

they’re not reborn in the world.”
they’re not born in the world.”

and what I’ve said.
what has not been given.

And even what belongs to others.
And both of whom you obvious.

not finding anything to be mine,

there is no sorrow for me.
there’s no sorrow.

I have no place, what does others do?
For whom there is no other of mine or in what, does others do

For the one who has ended the defilements,
whose defilements have ended;

“But if I were to ask for whether there is another kind of feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness in a connection with it, it wouldn’t be fitting, swallowed, aggregate, lying down, and drowning?”
if he thinks, “This is mine, this is where there’s anything left over, this is,” and she gives up feeling ... perception ... choices ... consciousness that come up. Their perception is dispelled, contemplated, and disgusted by form.

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, this body doesn’t belong to you or to anyone else.

It’s old deeds, and should be seen as produced by choices and intentions, as something to be experienced.
It’s old deeds, and should be seen as produced by choices and intentions, as something to be felt.

In this case, a learned noble disciple carefully and properly attends to dependent origination itself:

‘When this exists, that is; due to the arising of this, that arises. That is: form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
‘When this exists, that is; due to the arising of this, that arises; due to the cessation of choices, that ceases. That is: conditioned phenomenon; due to the cessation of choices.

That is how this entire mass of suffering originates.
and so there is an origination of this whole mass of suffering.

When ignorance fades away and ceases with nothing left over, choices cease. When choices cease, consciousness ceases. When consciousness ceases, name and form cease. When name and form cease, the six sense fields cease. When the six sense fields cease, contact ceases. When contact ceases, feeling ceases. When feeling ceases, craving ceases. When craving ceases, grasping ceases. When grasping ceases, continued existence ceases. When continued existence ceases, rebirth ceases. When rebirth ceases, old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress cease.

That is how this entire mass of suffering ceases.’”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“Learned in the world,
“Looking on the world as empty,

King Mogharāja, he’s mindful,
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

Having removed (wrong) view of self,

so it will cross over Death.
so death will cross over death.

who shows the world beyond,
looking around the world

king of Death won’t see you.”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

For this is said by the Buddha,
For this was said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, give up what isn’t yours.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

And what isn’t yours?

Form isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

Feeling is impermanent ...
Is feeling ...

perception ...

“Are choices permanent or impermanent?” ...

Consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

What do you think, mendicants, would that be carrying grass, sticks, branches, and leaves in this Jeta’s Grove, or burn them, or do what they want with them?”
What do you think, mendicants, that which is carrying grass, sticks, branches, and leaves in this Jeta’s Grove, or burn them, or do what they want with them?”

‘This person is carrying us off, burning us, or doing what they want with us?’”

“No, Sir.”
“No, sir.”

“Why is that?”

“But, Sir, isn’t that self or self?”
“But, sir, isn’t that self or self?”

“In the same way, mendicants, give up what isn't yours.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

And what isn’t yours?

Form isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

Feeling is impermanent ...
Is feeling ...

perception ...

“Are choices permanent or impermanent?” ...

Consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

And it’s appropriate for him to say:
The Buddha has said,

“Seeing dependent origination
“Seeing in line with natural origination,

you use only the baskets,
you use only processes,

and the bare process of conditions,

it doesn’t occur to them.
this doesn’t occur to you:

The world is like grass and sticks:

when this is seen with wisdom

you should certainly do not think,
and you won’t do anything else.

Except if you don’t take leave.”
Except if there is no trouble.”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

The nun Vajirā said to Māra,
You said to Māra,

“Now how does one return?
“Now how many hundreds But?

Māra, is this your theory?

This is just a pile of conditions,

Here a being tormented with beings
they’re not because of a sentient being

When the parts are assembled

we use the word ‘chariot’.

So too, when the aggregates are present

‘sentient being’ is the convention we use.

But it’s only suffering that comes to be,

lasts a while, then disappears.

Naught but suffering comes to be,

naught but suffering ceases.”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“In the same way, a mendicant searches for form, until the reckoning of form is found.
“In the same way, a mendicant searches for form, until they get rid of it.

They truly understand feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness extends it is condemned as far as consciousness.
consciousness is permanent, eternal, and imperishable.

As they search in this way,
As they search in this way, it gets all forms.

They truly understand feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness remains as far as consciousness and the light:
Consciousness is known as consciousness.

And when they think: ‘I’m simply ‘I’m going’ or ‘I am’.”
their results,

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

Venerable Ānanda said to the Buddha,

“Sir, they say that ‘the world is empty’.

What does the saying ‘the world is empty’ refer to?”
How is the world defined?”

“Ānanda, they say that ‘the world is empty’ because it’s empty of self or what belongs to self.

And what is empty of self or what belongs to self?

The eye is empty or self or what belongs to self.
The eye is empty of self or what belongs to self.

sights,
Perceiving forms,

Eye-consciousness,
the eye-consciousness,

eye contact ...
eye-contact,

namely, the pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by eye contact.
The pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by eye contact is also empty of self or what is empty.

the ear ...

Perceiving sounds ...
When you understand sounds ...

the nose ...

smells ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

... tastes ...

the body ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

mind, thoughts,
mind is emptiness ...

thoughts ...

mind consciousness ...
mind consciousness,

mind contact ...
mind-contact,

developing the pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by mind contact is empty of self or what belongs to self.
that is conditioned by mind contact, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by mind contact.

They say that ‘the world is empty’ because it’s empty of self or what belongs to self.”

I have no such reason.
and so there is no such thing in others.

not finding anything to be mine,

and my dad:
have two kinds of mine:

Craving forward and giving up craving ...
Craving and giving up craving ...

This is the craving that leads to the ending of craving. ...
This is craving that comes from craving. ...

This is the mere view.
This is the method of view.

Giving up craving, they keep encountermining the ending of craving. And if they don’t get rid of relishing these things, they don’t find
Then you give up craving and ignorant view, but don’t get rid of repulsion, not lazy, and oppressed by conceit.

not finding anything to be mine,

they don’t grieve or lament.

for one whose mind is distracted, and it is not about.
Isn’t scattered or diverse spectrum of clothes, but there is no basis for attachment.

“My eyes are disturbed,” nor does he grieve
knowing: “My eye is clear, I do not grieve.”

“... the ear ...

She has bloodted and decorated. She doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.
She’s decayed and perished, and my lament doesn’t sorrow or wail or lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

there is no sorrow for me.
there’s no sorrow.

The Buddha replied,

“There is no more,
“It’s not that I have no more,

And even what belongs to others.
And both of whom you obvious.

not finding anything to be mine,

they don’t grieve or lament.”
they don’t grieve or leave.”

unconcerned, not agitated,
without greed, hate, and delusion.

since they’re still imperturbable.
the stilling of all activities.

I’ll pass away his praises of the great soup.
I declare that their benefit is true.

And when questioned, they don’t change their minds.
Don’t lose what kind of teacher is not remorseful,

if he does not devote himself to non-restraint, he gives up everything without exception.
uncontrolled, successful and prosperous, all-seerated in every way.

What is the conclusion of a razor?
Which is a demon about?

It’s when someone is a demoning, possessions, honor, and popularity. They’re jealous, envying, and archery.
It may be that someone is undergoing tendencies, resentment, and running the possessions.

that under the slopes of Isigili is finished.
that deed was finished,

This is called a conclusion.
This is called a demon person.

The one who has given up attachment to fame is cut off, but has cut off the trail.
When a dog has given up this,

Stroken on the best height of his knowledge, he is called “unbound” .
is what is meant.

He is not greedy:
greedy:

Guarding is what is meant.
necessary is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Anyone who has cut off the stream, whose knowledge has been cut off, is called agitation, rising off the tips of knowledge, and is said to be the best.
Anyone who has cut off the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future—is called pursue the foremost.

So greedy for form,
Agitating in the formless,

sounds ...
When sounds ...

Someone who is freed in regard to things that seem they are rid of greed, hate, and delusion. They’re rid of greed, hate, delusion, and ignorance. They’ve given up when they haven’t got rid of greed, hate, and delusion.
Without attachments, the houseless one, unconfused about things. They’ve got rid of greed, hate, and delusion. They live happily without greed, hate, and delusion.

unconcerned, not agitated,
without greed, hate, and delusion.

since they’re still imperturbable.
bereft of all activities.

one born of craving is what is meant.
craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Anyone who has given up craving and cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated it, and unable to arise in the future.
Anything that has been given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

giving up desire, being not-self—
With the giving up of desire they’ve given up—

They don’t try to persevere or dice. They don’t try to get fame or disgrace. They don’t give rise to pleasure in pain. They don’t give rise to joy, and don’t give rise to pleasure.
They don’t tremble or get something tasty. They don’t tremble or get fame or winning. They don’t grow in common. They don’t grow old, they don’t shake or rock or tremble.

yet seem offered,
a glorious one,

all twelve sense fields are communities, all of these twelve sense spheres,
all that is called “where all”.

The eye and sights ...

mind and thoughts
The mind and thoughts are thoughts.

When they’ve given up desire and greed for the interior sense fields, cut them off at the root, made them like a palm stump, obliterated them, so they’re called a palm stump, obliterated them, so they’re unable to arise in the future.
When it has been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, so they are unable to arise in the future.

everywhere means in all directions:
So everywhere, in all ways:

since they’re still imperturbable.
the stilling of all activities.

Remembering their benefit, (they ask):
Respect ailment of darkness and waves.

These four people asked me for the sake of ignorant people. They were asked inspires confidence when asked.
Yet when asked permission of the person, it was taught by those four people. These are the four ways of being asked, they are directly contradicts, and they act in connected with each other.

...”

(They are) asking about his advantages.
(But) having asked about the advantages of men, (which is) not free from (the Buddha).

The Buddha replied,

“He who has no flames,
“Shaking without resentment,

since they’re still imperturbable.
the stilling of all activities.

I’ll pass away his praises of the great soup.
I declare that their benefit is true.

we haven’t done enough.”
asking questions that are not lose.”

free of desire for them.
free of desire for the drinking,

They lie down to restrain.
For one leaks out,

from fear,
Liberating, I live free of fear,

sees safety in every way!
you see the sanctuary.

one who does not know it.
one who knows the end of grasping:

one born of craving is what is meant.
craving is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Anyone who has given up craving and cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated it, and unable to arise in the future.
Anything that has been given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

giving up desire, being not-self—
With the giving up of desire they’ve given up—

They don’t try to persevere or dice. They don’t try to get fame or disgrace. They don’t give rise to pleasure in pain. They don’t give rise to joy, and don’t give rise to pleasure.
They don’t tremble or get something tasty. They don’t tremble or get fame or winning. They don’t grow in common. They don’t grow old, they don’t shake or rock or tremble.

yet see how they are—
disturbed, still thinks:

knowing, knowing, penetrating, and understanding.
knowing the way, knowing, you understand, penetrate, and wisdom.

to know or see so that form is impermanent, suffering, and perishable.
to understand all conditions as impermanent,

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Anything that has a beginning has the nature of arising, all that is liable to cease.”

free of desire for them.
free of desire for the drinking,

no-one relinquished.
there is no place beyond.

They’re said to be demeritorious (volitional) processes, a demeritorious (volitional) process.
(There is) a meritorious (volitional) process, a demeritorious (volitional) process, an imperturbable (volitional) process.

When a mendicant has given up merit and demerites, they’re not cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, or to arise in the future.
When their body and speech has been given up and stilled, they don’t have a disturbance, anxiety, or eliminate old age.

They lie down to restrain.
For one leaks out,

from fear and dread.
Liberately discontent,

a demeritorious, a demeritorious (volitional) process, an imperturbable (volitional) process.
They’ve destroyed the merits of goodness, a demeritorious (volitional) processes.

When they have given up merit,
When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in the future.

from fear,
Liberating, I live free of fear,

Seeing a secure,
he sees everything.

Abhaya, fear for what is fearful, dread, and contemptuous ... eloquence ...
The perils of greed, hate, and delusion.

With the giving up of greed for hate ...
They’ve given up greed for sensual pleasures.

One who sees fearlessness in all defilements, sees it, has no ownerings, thus it is simply not free of defilements. And he sees that all faults has to be abandoned.
One sees fearlessness in all defilements, abandoning them, and not clinging to all conditions. And he sees all beings in all directions, which is without fear and dregs, and that’s free of enmity and ill will.

sees safety in every way!
you see the sanctuary.

The Buddha replied,

“There is no desire for one who understands
“For those who are free of desire,

They lie down to restrain.
For one leaks out,

from fear,
Liberating, I live free of fear,

sees everything.”
you see everything.”

among the gods,
and delight in heavens:

the sage in regard to such a tree.
you say that a sage is not sageable.

peaceful and stingy,
That peaceful one, with stinginess,

nor does he discontent,
nor does he lose it.

said the Buddha,

Nor offensive are no conditions for being negligent.
no delight in beings, hopes say, is the afflictedness.

his momentary wife:
Sages a reputation:

Knowledge of delusion ...
knowledge of delusion is called the Sage who is called a sage of being inclusive,

if he says, “I am better”, “I am this” or “I am equal”; “I am not this”, “I am not this”, “I am this”, “I do not speak of it,” “I am this”, “I am this”, “I am not this”,” “I don’t speak to you,”
if he says, “I’m better than you,” “I am I’m better” or “I am equal to them,” “I do not say, ‘I am this’, ‘I am this’, ‘I am not speaking’;

among the multiplications, and radiants,
Not in the heavens, nor say no sage,

peaceful and stingy,
the stinginess of the peaceful,

peaceful, greedy, hateful, and delusion.
peaceful and steadfast, because they are peaceful,

For one who has hate ...
hate ...

delusion ...

And when he has done so, with the stilling of the settling of intentional activities, he becomes fully extinguished.
And when all these, his meditations are stilled, covetous, with the stilling of the settling of discernment, dispelling materiality, and with insight as peaceful.

peaceful and stabilized,

They’re stingy and stingy.
They generate enthusiasm,

stinginess ...

They’ve given up stinginess and cut off all jobs,
They’ve given up jealousy and stinginess. ...

Recollecting the best stinginess, thirst, passion, and craving for knowledge.
regarding the best kinds of fondness and thirst, the abandoning of the passions, and the hatred and the skin.

peaceful and stingy,
That peaceful one, with stinginess,

“Because he doesn’t conceal it, Sir.”
But the Blessed One doesn’t lose it, Blessed One,

They don’t get hold of form, and they don’t grasp it. They don’t relish it.
They don’t grasp form ...

They truly understand feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness ...

Making decision ...
exertion ...

rebirth ...
their rebirth ...

If you slander yourself ...
gladness ...

continued existence ...

transmigration ...

he doesn’t grasp it ...
he doesn’t grasp it, nor does he make a wish,

neither “They don’t distributes”.
doesn’t escape him;

They don’t give up form, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it.

They truly understand feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness ...

Making decision ...
exertion ...

rebirth ...
their rebirth ...

If you slander yourself ...
gladness ...

continued existence ...

transmigration ...

They don’t give up, get rid of, eliminate, and obliterate those thoughts.

The Buddha has laid down in speech that is gateway to be realized.
Respect for spiritual companions is the Buddha to realize the four truths.

The Buddha replied,

“Amongst there’s no delight
“In regard to a normal spending,

the sage in regard to such a tree.
you say that a sage is not sageable.

peaceful and stingy,
That peaceful one, with stinginess,

they won’t escape me.”
But you won’t escape me.”

said the Buddha,

remote Kinds of Times
Ten Discourses on Transmigrating

