Mahāniddesa

Aṭṭhakavagga

16. Sāriputtasuttaniddesa

Sāriputta declares
Sāriputta then spoke to Sāriputta

I have no before.
I have never seen before.

Venerable Sāriputta would like that,
ʻVenerable Sāriputta, having few wishes,

No one has no water
Have no water at all,

After the Teacher has vomited up,
Even so the Teacher, the Vaggumudā

he arrived at Tusita.
he went to Tusita hostile on the Tusita mountain.

I have no before.
I haven’t seen before.

Because of this I’ve never seen him with this love.
Previously, I’ve never seen him with this eye.

When the Buddha has completed the rainy season residence in the midst of the Tāvatiṁsa wounds, in the middle of the gods, and in the middle of the ocean before it was a person, in the middle of the ocean, and in the end of the town.
When the Buddha had completed the rainy season residence at the root of the Thirty-Three, in the middle of the gods of the Thirty-Three and in the middle of the ocean, he thought,

I have no before.
I have never seen before.

Sāriputta would like that,
Venerable Sāriputta wishes,

wishes: “Pokkharasāti has a trickle from comprehension of the lotus ponds; by Pokkharasāti, never systems!
Thus there is causing he will saying: “In this way the meaning of the phrases, that is to say, the phrases, the lotus ponds, and the lotus pondserce.”

With the intention of making:
Liberation:

this is a term for respect and reverence for the Teacher, the teaching, and the Saṅgha.
This is a term for respect and reverence for Piyatissa.

Venerable Dismission:
Venerable Bhaddiyati:

Sāriputta reckoned as such.
Sāriputta “Upāli, Venerable Sāriputta” is the name of the senior monks, and “the designation of the phrasing, and ‘the legal procedure’.

Venerable Sāriputta would like that,
ʻVenerable Sāriputta, having few wishes,

they’re not easy to know a well.
they’re not easy to know.

neither dissipate nor too.
neither long nor impingement.

Regular monks ran out, without steping one another lotus pond, full of phrases, phrases, and a phrases.
Or he has had an heavy striver.

Or else:
Or else.

whether he’s an aristocrat, a brahmin, a merchant, or a worker.

No one has no water
Have no water at all,

After the Teacher has vomited up,
the teacher says like this.

Afterwards, like the defects, (thinking): the hearts, the kinsmen, the hearts of compassion,
Thus is the defeated face that is like lake, ~ the heart flesh, the neck, the hater of the heart, the kidney, and the neck,

His voice has eight qualities:
His voice has eight factors:

it is great, charming, comprehensible, charming, audible, rounded, undistorted, deep, and resonant.
it is clear, comprehensible, charming, audible, rounded, undistorted, deep, and resonant.

He makes sure his voice is intelligible as far as the assembly goes, but it doesn’t extend outside the assembly. And he my voice is permanent, everlasting, saying:
He makes his voice is intelligible as far as the assembly goes, but it doesn’t extend outside the assembly. And he makes it known as one.

Like this, the normal appearances.
Like this, the Vaggumudā is like that.

the Teacher, the Blessed One, is a caravan leader.
the teacher remembers the teacher;

Just as a caravan leader crosses the robber on the desert, robbers, or bandits archery on a pig, a criminal, and is robbed with thief.
Just as a caravan leader crosses the desert safely, robbers in the caravan, or in the deer park on the bank, so that when the criminal was robbers prevented, having built a sanctuary,

In the same way, a caravan leader comes along a destiny.
In the same way, when a caravan is struck by arrow, the Buddha spends the armed of the armedgs.

death ...

sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress have a destroyer of greed, hate, and delusion.
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.

deluded ...

one deserving the trial period,
a monk undertaking the trial period,

or has a bad view after personally receiving it ...
for views,

defilements ...

They try to remove greed and hate ...
When they’ve left the bads of the city, hate and delusion ...

delusion ...

ornamented,
ornamental hanging down ...

or view,
or bad view,

defilements ...
corruption,

They kill living creatures, steal, commit sexual misconduct, and lie. And they drunk the deathless.
Having done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind, he makes the near shore, he becomes safe, and extinguishment.

But the Buddha is really caravan leader.
And that’s how the Buddha caravan .

Then the Buddha described the land of the Vāsavatī, having faith and confidence,
Then the Buddha describes the kind of confidence in those without it, having attained it, will increase the confidence of those who have it,

But the Buddha is really caravan leader.
And that’s how the Buddha caravan .

Or again the Blessed One gave rise to the unarisen path, gave birth to the unborn path, explained the unexplained path. He was the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have now explained the path.
So the Buddha told him what had happened.

And the Buddha replied,
And he said,

After the Teacher has vomited up,
Even so the Teacher, the Vaggumudā

he takes it on trust from the Tusita a group.
he takes one month to the Tusita.

Let the Buddha remain mindful and aware, mindful and aware, surveying his mother’s womb,
May the Buddha, and mindful and aware, he was conceived in his mother’s womb,

But they still came
But he also came.

then the Gods of Yama is what is meant.
Then the Joyful Gods,

contented, joyful, and happy.
They’re content, uplifted and overjoyed, full of rapture and happiness.

But they still came
But he also came.

Then they are said to be one who is perfected,
Then they’re said to be one who is perfected,

Contented, contented, satisfied, and groups of perfected ones, they came to the community.
Confused, contented and satisfied with the groups of perfected ones.

But they still came
But he also came.

the Fortunate One takes it, (saying):
taken by group, Blessed One.

takes hold of an order and a community, and teaches a community. He seizes a group of nuns, the community, and teaches a community. He seizes a group of nuns, and he establishes a group. He seizes them, establishes them in the property. He seizes them, establishes them in the skillful part of the community.
the teacher takes it on trust from the community, the community, and groups, the community, and he establishes a group. He seizes a group of nuns, follows a group of nuns, and he establishes a group. He seizes it, establishes an uplifting religious founders. He seizes them with a group of lay followers, he establishes a community. He seizes them as an order of gods, after giving them to the group. He seized the group of lay followers, he establishes them on them at ease ... who wish.

a brahmin ...
a _paṇḍaka_ ...

a merchant ...

the worker of the smallest
the worker of the ocean ...

the gods ...
the Gods of the Thirty-Three ...

the caravan leader of the Brahmadatta.
the group of nuns, group of nuns, teachers of the Dispensation,

Should come back to the city, thinking,
He is reborn in the city, thinking,

he arrived at Tusita.
he went to Tusita hostile on the Tusita mountain.

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“Surely I haven’t seen before,
“I haven’t seen anyone before.

Venerable Sāriputta would like that,
ʻVenerable Sāriputta, having few wishes,

No one has no water
Have no water at all,

After the Teacher has vomited up,
Even so the Teacher, the Vaggumudā

he’s taken a group.”
he takes joyfully on the Tusita.”

in all the world with its gods,

is tamed by the seer.
like that for the seer.

all dispelling them,
the one dispelling them,

find one joy in the next world.
wander alone; I am alone.

In this world with its gods, Māras, and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans.
In this world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans—whatever is seen, heard, thought, known, sought, and explored by the mind:

in all the world with its gods,

As they were seen the Buddha seated with the thirty-two parts of the Shady Orchid Tree of Eye. As they see the Buddha sitting in that teaching.
They see the Buddha, the thirty-two parts of the god as long as they sat there were, they see the Buddha seated at the wrong time.

see the deities who see it.
see the deities with which they see.

likewise that they will see the gods and the men.
like that for humans, likewise.

like that will be given to people.
like people will see the gods.”

just like this it’s still see clear.
just like the seer.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who are tamed, calmed, and extinguished by the complexion of what is not tamed. They will be extinguished with disparage.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are tamed and pacified in the color of water ...

“One like a clay earring resembling (one gold),
“One from a clay earrings,

like a copper penny coated with gold,
like a copper penny coin covered with gold,

they live hidden in the world,

corrupt inside but impressive outside.”

but the Buddha won’t give it up.
And the Buddha won’t give it up.

The Buddha will tame him through the ground that has now been given to him by. He will tame him through the truth, now he will be extinguished, tamed, trained, and extinguished.
The Buddha will surely be a true holy man with accumulated through the truth, (wholesome) with the appearance of the story of the pair, quite peaceful and attainmentful, who is queenched by the holy Buddhas, who will be peaceful and self-control, who will become fully extinguished. He will attain Nibbāna by the Buddha,

just like this it’s still see clear.
just like the seer.

Then the Buddha looked like an elephant in the forest, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the wild bull elephant, the foremost of men and gods, the spirits of Brahmās, and the forests, the highest among gods and humans.
Then the Buddha Vāseṭṭhas, in the world of men, dreadful and bright, as well as the native spirits and men in the Brahmajāla groves, Yetakas, Abhaya and Puṇṇas and Devas, the Gods Who Control the Creations of Others, and the Abhaya.

just like this it’s still see clear.
just like the seer.

Or he does so, with the four powers of direct knowledge, endowed with wisdom that is purified and superhuman, his six strengths and his direct knowledges with wisdom.
Then the Buddha endowed with these ten powers: six kinds of direct-knowledge, one with penetrating wisdom, and four kinds of direct-knowledge (wholesome) power, with wisdom will show the special qualities of the Buddha, and with wisdom.

“The people proclaim it
“The good people proclaim it.

like the Himalayas.
like a mountain on the slopes.

but the wicked are not seen,

as by night.”
this night is like monster.”

just like this it’s still see clear.
just like the seer.

The Buddha eyes and five eyes:

the Visionary-Seeing Visionary, the eye of the Buddha, and the clear vision of the Visionary, and the eye-contact-born of Visionary, the clear vision of the Eye-Seer.
And the eye of the flesh of the eye and the eye of the eye of wisdom, and the eye of the flesh, the eye of the eye and of the Buddha.

The Fortunate One, how did the Fortunate One see me
* The Fortunate One, how did the Fortunate One see me

The Buddha praised me with the eye of the flesh,
the Buddha’s praised me with the five kinds of vision:

blue, yellow, red, and white.

eyelash,
while weighing, the Fortunate One’s eyes.

Where the eyes are established, blue, yellow, red, white, and blue flowers are easy to see.
Where the eyes are established, blue-black, blue-black, and blue lotuses,

They had yellow, red, white, or golden garland.
They’re yellow, beautiful, and illustrious.

And they are bloody-handed, red and illustrious.
And they are bloody-handed sights, decorated with one of the Buddha’s eyes.

They’re just like threshing floor in the middle of a stone that’s covered with white cloth.
They’re nicely bathed in the middle of the day, covered with a very sight, and they see covered with white cloth.

They’re white, with a white cloth from others, with a white stilt household, clean clothes, and beds.
They’re white, with white color, a white hue, and door.

Now, the Buddha made me drink by means of that incarnation for a whole night, with the eyes might see for a league all around both night and day.
Now, the Buddha sees me in the morning and through the whole of that life-forms a hundred leagues away from all around both for a day and night.

when he has four factors, he is darkness and sunset from sun.
when he has four factors, the darkness has the darkness factor and the sun comes up.

And the observance of the sabbath is large. It is a bunch of sesame flour, but it is chickly large.
And the observance-day procedure is large, like a wound. It is swelling out of the black storms, but it has not been swept away.

Even the fourth factor of complete in the darkness.
Even such a one possesses the four factors.

no damage or archery, there’s no creeper, and making it from a conflagration.
no matter how to see a wall, a leaf-hut, or a mountain cleft, and a place wherever they can go and see visits.

If he were to make a fruit, he should remove the fruit of that same sign,
If he took some fruit of a sesame floor ...

Thus the Fortunate One’s vision, (saying):
thus the Fortunate One’s vision is pure,

Thus the Fortunate One, having vision,
Thus the Fortunate One, having eyes,

How did the Fortunate One see with the divine eye?
How did the Fortunate One see with his divine eye?

With clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, the Buddha sees sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place.

and he knows beings arise according to their (good and bad) actions...

“These dear beings did bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

They never spoke ill of the noble ones; they had right view; and they chose to act out of that right view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a good place, a heavenly realm.’ And so, with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, they see sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.
They spoke ill of the noble ones; they had wrong view; and they chose to act out of that wrong view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell. These dear beings, however, did good things by way of body, speech, and mind. They never spoke ill of the noble ones; they had right view; and they chose to act out of that right view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a good place, a heavenly realm.’ And so, with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, they see sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

and he knows beings arise according to their (good and bad) actions...

If he wished, the Buddha might see the world elements, and the four world elements, who might see the world elements, and the world of men, all of them standing, one hundred and ten thousand world elements. And then although he may see the world elements, the teaching and the world elements, the world contracting and evasionsive, and the four world elements.
If he wished, the Buddha might see the world elements, and the two elements of the world elements. And all of them can see the world elements, the gods of embracing the world elements, and the group of four elements. Or suppose that, the fire element were to see the world elements, the air element, and the state of the gods. And each and the one might see clearly.

thus the Fortunate One is pure and bright.
thus so pure and bright,

Thus the Fortunate One has seen with his divine eye,
Thus the Fortunate One with his divine-eye,

How did the Fortunate One seers of wisdom?
How did the Fortunate One seers with the eye of wisdom?

He has great wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, swift wisdom, sharp wisdom, and penetrating wisdom. He has attained excess of ten kinds of widespread. And he converses confidence in his heart the weakened by wisdom, the One of Ten Powers, who has arrived at the region, who is unsprofitable, and swelling person with widespread wisdom.
He, widespread wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, excelling the responsiveness of widespread wisdom, the One with great wisdom, the darkness of wisdom, the one with good wisdom, the widespread wisdom, the four castegories of consciousness, the one with great wisdom, the dread widel of wisdom, the people of consequence of their wealth.

For the Blessed One has arisen in the unarisen path, gave birth to the unborn path, explained the unexplained path. He is the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have explained the path.
For the Blessed One is the one who gave rise to the unarisen path, who gave birth to the unborn path, who explained the unexplained path. He is the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have now explained the wrong path.

For the Buddha knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.
For he is the Buddha, who knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.

There is no such thing as knowing and seeing the Buddha has not known, seen, understood, realized, and experienced this with wisdom.
There is no known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom.

In the past, future, and present are present. All of the Buddhas come from in front to truly.
past, future, and present. All these things are included in the Buddha’s presence, and all his present.

Whatever I know there is, whether something is beneficial or what is harmful, or what is beneficial in this life. What is good, the meaning is expounded, or what is beneficial. The meaning is the meaning is correct and is the meaning.
Whatever I need there is, he should know, the meaning, or the benefit, and the good of others—whether pleasant, painful, or neutral—that is beneficial or is unshakable.

regarding the Buddha’s knowledge of the past, future, and present.

all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not return to the Buddha.
all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not return to the Buddha,

all of speech ...

all the deeds done by way of mind do not return to the Buddha, the Fortunate One,

he knows as far as there is giving,
he knows as far as (deeds) knows each and every day’s knowledge,

knowledge of the limiting,
Knowledge of the limited knowledge and the number of precincts.

If I don’t know it or reach the end of the robe, and then passes beyond, there’s no composed.
knowledge hasn’t let go beyond, and there is no unshakable knowledge.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

As the sun (works) at the tops of the two, the upper rope does not smooth on the above ground.
As the sun (dwells) lighting up the firmament which lasts on the ground, so too above the collar bone but stands on the above ground all sides.

so too the Buddha’s knowledge, and the number of knowledges were totally destroyed,
In the same way the Buddha’s knowledge, and all they became known,

each time just as far as the last careful knowledge.
He knows as far as low as (deeds) knowledge of various sorts of offenses, knowledge of the limited knowledge.

...
having recovered the knowledge of making amends, one does not cross over the posture.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

Knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge,
the knowledge of the Buddha’s Dhamma,

All things are clear in reference to the Buddha’s doctrines, applying to the dependent origination of the Buddha.
all things in the Buddha’s monastery, having them developed with attention, giving attention,

with the Buddha’s knowledge of all,
knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge of all,

He knows all sentient beings’ habits, knows their inherent tendencies, knows their bents, knows them as with little dust on their eyes and with much dust on their eyes, with keen faculties and with dull faculties, with good behaviour and with bad behaviour, easy to teach and hard to teach, capable and incapable of achieving knowledge,
All sentient beings know what is beneficial and what is harmful, they know what is very beneficial, and they are incapable of achieving the supreme field of wisdom. They know the calm and the pillow, with much dust on their eyes, and they are capable of breaking up and leaves of faculties.

... the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans, the Buddhas swells towards the Buddha.
the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans, princes,

all the finger-snap ...
all the stingy fish ...

In the same way the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans,
In the same way, this world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans, the Buddhas swappear in moved.

all the heavy burden is put down in the air, even as long as a bunch of space.
all the heavy burden is just like a heavy cow.

In the same way, those who comprehend the Buddha’s knowledge even though the teaching and training proclaimed by the Buddha.
In the same way, those who have learned and comprehended with wisdom the Buddha taught today onwards.

Knowledge of the Buddha, Knowledge, (thinking):
a wise and virtuous decrease, (thinking): It is the greatest of the Buddha,

Even when clever aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics have come to see me with their doctrines. You’d think it was undercover, then I’d better preemptively lie down on a question.
Even those aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics who are subtle, accomplished in the doctrines of others, hair-spliters. They seem to be totally considered as if they don’t, make a wish, and make a wish:

When the Buddha has given those questions they are trickling, but when he is finished, the questions have been spun.
They are committed to the worry, but when the Buddha has laid down they created reply.

they are present.
they are the Buddha’s words.

Rather, the Buddha shines in wisdom.
Rather, the Buddha shines in that place.

The Fortunate One has clearly seen (him) with the eye of wisdom
The Fortunate One has the eye of wisdom,

How did the Fortunate One seer?
How did the Fortunate One see the eye?

And the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes; with keen faculties and with weak faculties, with good qualities and with bad qualities, easy to teach and hard to teach. And some of them lived seeing the danger in the fault to do with the next world, while others did not.

It’s like a pool with blue water lilies, or pink or white lotuses.
It was just like a lotus pond with lotuses born and grown in water: some remain submerged in the water without rising out of it, others reach the surface of the water, and others still rise out of the water without being touched by it.

In the same way, the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes.

The Buddha knows that

“This person is of greedy temperament, one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, one of speculative temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”
“This person is of greedy temperament, this is one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”

For one of greedy temperament talks about people.
The Fortunate One spoke about the person of greedy temperament about the person,

In one of hating temperament the Blessed One tells about loving-kindness to another person,
The Fortunate One tells about the person of hating temperament,

In one of deluded temperament, the Buddha questions at the right time without asking permission.
for one of deluded temperament, for a person who is habitually asks questions, truely, and meaningfully.

Mindfulness of breathing explains the Buddha.
He tells about a person of thinking,

And that is how the Buddha explains a person’s confidence, in order to explain the teaching, and the Saṅgha, and the ethics, learning, generosity, and wisdom.
In one of faithful temperament, the Buddha declares that person’s present life. He explains the Teaching to the Sangha, the virtues of the Order, the Dhamma, and the Saṅgha.

In one of hating temperament the sign of serenity and discernment, the pointless, and the way of revealing is made.
The Buddha tells about the temperaments. He teaches the signless, the aspect of arousing knowledge, which is impermanent, suffering, and perishable.

“Standing high on a rocky mountain,

you can see the people all around.

In just the same way, all-seer, wise one,

the Palace made from Dhamma, Visionary One,

Being rid of sorrow, look upon the people,
rid of sorrow, look upon the people,

swamped with sorrow, oppressed by rebirth and old age.”

Thus the Fortunate One, too, the Fortunate One,
The Fortunate One has such eyes,

How should the Fortunate One, Visionary,
May the Fortunate One, Visionary One,

All-Seing Visionary is what is meant.
all-knower is what is meant.

He has attained all knowledge and insight into the omniscience.
He has arisen in omniscience, which is accompanied by all observed.

“She hasn’t seen anything you altogether.
“There is no enemy in whatever is seen

untrue, these things must be done.
Knowing this, unshakable,

to have direct knowledge all kinds of direct knowledge.
all-knowledge one can know,

from that, the Realized One sees clearly.”
The Realized One is the best for all around.”

The Buddha has eyes all around.
The Buddha has eyes too through the eye.

is tamed by the seer.
like that for the seer.

Having dispelled all greed, hate, and delusion, and attachment to view, they give up the conceit ‘I am’, the ‘givenorance is a hundred sights, and make an end of suffering’. They too, having given up ignorance and given rise to extinguishment, they don’t give rise to extinguishment.
Having removed all the darkness, defilement, and vanity of desire, ill will, confusion, and fear, agitation, and worry, without getting rid of the eye, earning, nose, tongue, body, and mind, and eradicated it, and letting it go, they don’t give up ignorance.

all dispelling them,
the one dispelling them,

finds joy in the lazy.
finds joy in the forest,

one gone forth is surely not free of greed, hate, and delusion, while the other wassed. One is not free of greed, hate, delusion, and unified, consistenthusiasm and fully awakened.
one gone forth is summoned by an ascetic Gotama, one is alone, with nothing left over, one is unique to the supreme path, one is perfect in the supreme perfect awakening.

The Fortunate One, how did he go forth,
How is the Fortunate One reckoned as a going forth?

Only the Buddha spoke to Kāḷī in the prime of life—though his mother and father wished: “On the finest chariot, I’ll shave off my hair and beard, dress in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.”
Only the Buddha spoke to Kāḷa, in the prime of life—though my mother and father, advanced in having prevented hair, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness—is able, having given up all his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.

Thus the Fortunate One, living alone withdrawn,
the Fortunate One has gone forth like this.

How does the Buddha get alone?
How do the Fortunate One consents in one way?

When they’ve gone forth they frequent remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrates on walking mindfully alone.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and he walks alone; he walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrated on walking mindfully; he walks alone; he walks walking on walking mindfully, returns, sat down in private alone, and concentrated on the noble ones.

So the Buddha is one personal.
So the Buddha says in the sense of bones.

How is the Fortunate One alone with that craving?
How is the Fortunate One in the sense of having given up craving?

So that’s what he did.
When they live alone, withdrawn, diligent, keen, and resolute, he practiced diligently, and resolutely for the sake of a tree, which is an embankment, not heedlessly. He gave up craving, gave birth to a black debt, gave birth to axiety, and boundless.

“Craving is a person’s partner

as long as I lived long
and determined for a long time.

They go from this state to another,
their coming and going,

but don’t escape transmigration.

Knowing this danger,
Knowing this danger

that craving is the cause of suffering—

Rid of craving, free of grasping,

to give up desire for rebirth.
to give up sensual desire.

Thus the Fortunate One, having given up craving, one too
the Fortunate One has given up craving in the sense of urgency,

And how does the Buddha someone without greed
How is the Buddha one free of greed?

When greed has been given up, one is completely given up, one who has given up greed, hate, and delusion.
When they’ve given up greed, hate, and delusion have given them up, one with a deluded mind.

How does the Fortunate One come alone?
“And how does the Fortunate One come alone?”

the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.
four kinds of mindfulness meditation are called the four right efforts.

“The compassionate one, who sees the utter ending of rebirth,

understands the path to convergence.

By this path people crossed over before,

will cross over, and are crossing over.”

the Fortunate One goes alone,
the Fortunate One came by one,

So how did he awakened to the supreme perfect awakening?
How is he one awakened to the supreme perfect awakening?

the wisdom faculty, wisdom, is called the awakening factor of investigation of principles, and right view.
the wisdom faculty, is called the wisdom faculty, knowledge of the awakening factor of investigation of principles, and right view.

Therefore the Buddha understood, “Understanding the Bodhisatta.”
Therefore the Buddha abides in awakening: “Choices are impermanent.”

All conditions are suffering—

All things are not-self—

ignorance is a condition for choices. ...
‘Ignorance is a condition for choices.’ ...

he is a condition for old age and death.

When ignorance ceases, choices cease. ...

When rebirth ceases, old age and death cease.
“Painful is the cessation of old age and death.”

wandering about suffering,
“This is suffering.”

“This is the origin of suffering”,

“This is the cessation of suffering”,
“This is the cessation of suffering.”

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”.
“This is the practice going to the cessation of suffering”—

“These are the defilements” ...

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of pollutants.”
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.

“These things should be completely understood.” ...

you should give up. ...
you should give up ...

...”
observes: ...

They should be directly known:
He should be looked up at the truth,

the six fields of contact’s origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
the six fields of contact origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

the origin and ending of the five grasping aggregates’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
the origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape of the five grasping aggregates’ origin,

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

“Whatever has the nature of arising,

all things have the nature of cessation.”
all that comes to cessation.”

Or pervading anywhere they can lead to it up. They should examine the truth and experience contact. And they should be directly known that contact.
Whatever wokes should be looked up at, headed forward, and persevering to the Bodhi tree as such, he can realized the end of all contact.

So that’s how the Buddha awakened to the supreme perfect awakening.
Soon afterwards the Buddha awakened to the supreme perfect awakening.

finds joy in the next life.
you’ll find delight

They delight in renunciation, seclusion, delight in seclusion, and peace. And they realize the goal of peace.
They delight in renunciation, seclusion, delight in seclusion, and delight in peace. And I’ll realize the supreme perfect awakening.

find one joy in the next world.
wander alone; I am alone.

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“The Gods of the world
“The world of men,

is tamed by the seer.
like that for the seer.

all dispelling them,
the one dispelling them,

you’ve got rid of all alone.”
you’ll find one alone.”

at that moment I realized the Buddha.
the Buddha, the son of the Buddha,

where I could go from a good family.
where I received the going,

bound by many deeds here.
I’m bound by many people

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

without getting enough of Buddha,
Following you the Buddha,

He who was Buddha, the ruler of the earth, like a man, being unattached, experienced, and through the supreme knowledge of all these things.
he who was Buddha, the chain of all things, the Buddha is the disciple, the observer of supreme awakening, and so having realized all things.

by what is the Buddha?

The Buddha awakened to truth,
The Buddha is the truthful one, wakens the truth,

He is the awakened one who understands Bāvari.
He is the Buddha, who is awakened,

The Buddha, omniscience,
The Buddha, the entire omniscience,

He is the Buddha,
the Buddha, the teacher of all,

The Buddha is the best of men,

he is the Buddha,
the Buddha shines with point.

The Buddha with defilements ended, who had destroyed the pollutants.
The Buddha with the destroyed the pollutants.

immeasurable, the Buddha,
The Buddha, having immediately understood the truth of conditions,

He is extremely free of greed.
to one free of greed.

Awakened One, the Buddha,

Oh Buddha! The Awakened one is indeed the best.
Awakened One, the Buddha.

And one who’s full of defilements.
one who has reached perfect defilements,

One day, for the road to the Buddha,
the one road goes to the road, the Buddha.

alone to the unsurpassed and Perfect Awakening.
one awakened to the supreme perfect Awakening.

was awakened to by the Awakened One,
The Awakened One, the Buddhas, (but) after being wise,

and the Buddha who was called their mother, father, and brother,
the Buddha is the name of the Awakened One, who has done his father,

or else their brothers.
it’s not done by brothers or sisters.

When a sister has not done it,
done by sister,

Through friends and colleagues,
Having done as friends,

Though relatives and kin’t have been done by them,
does not have relations with relatives,

He’s not done by ascetics and brahmins.
it is not by ascetics and brahmins.

When the gods have not been done,
it is not done by deities

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of all Buddhas and knowledges that is the truth of supreme awakening.
“perceiving the liberations that are the Buddhas of awakening and the root of all the knowledges, that is to say: this is the truth of knowledge.”

who is the Buddha,
Awakened One, the Buddha,

Two kinds of support:
there are two kinds of support:

Craving, Desire, and Sineru,
Your views and what you have.

What is craving?

Craving is the end of the craving, made known by the head, made up of limited and exprehension.
Craving is vital conditioned by craving—missible, limited and expounded by the sickness.

This is how my guardians, singing, music, garlands, fragrances, and makeup; and here and there are eight big crowds, bondservants, elephants and cattles, and capitals infantry. It is there the eighth day of the Chiefs and tangibles of craving for the kings.
This is how my chicken’s love for me. It has been drawn out from the neighborhood of sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. And it’s about the elephants, horses, bandits, the towns, and countries. It is plunged into the town or the village.

This is the ending of craving.

What is their view?

Ten bases of identity view, ten kinds of voting tickets, and ten bases of views are not attached.
Ten grounds for identity views, ten bases of identity view, ten kinds of wrong view, ten bases of wrong view.

That kind of view is attached to it, holding the recipient of views, holding them tight, and refusing to let go. From view to let go, relying on such a wrong way, taking care of the wrong view, the recipient, the six sense fields in the wrong view. And the recipient is wrong view, not the intention to return.
the view of such a view is attached to it, holding the recipient of views, holding the recipient of the views, holding the reinforced to the recipient, the opposite sex. From view he doesn’t get hold of wrong views, wrong thought, “This is wrong speech, not the intention of what is wrong view.”

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

The Buddha’s views that they’ve given up, rely on adhering to the Buddha.
He has given up craving and rely on the Buddha.

When craving was given up, the Buddha has given up and reprehensible people, not mistaken, so too. ...
When craving has been given up and given up by craving, the Buddha makes an effort in the body. ...

the mind isn’t found in them.
you’re mindless and unattached.

sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. ...”

... to a family ...
... obtains ...

praise ...

a robe ...

almsfood ...
alms-food ...

... furniture ...
furniture ...

...
who’s sick,

sensuality ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

the formless realm ...

continued existence ...
sensuality ...

continued existence ...

They truly understand form ...
form ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

continued existence ...

It is the five kinds of choice ...
four blessings ...

past ...

When they have seen, heard, thought, or known something, they haven’t left untied. They don’t get rid of repulsion, and they don’t neglected to the unattached, committed to the end of suffering.
He has seen the Truth, understood, and penetrated it; he is unshakable, infatuated, unattached, seeing the drawbacks, and understanding the infatuated, he is committed to the higher mind. He is committed to charity in the middle of the end, his mind is free of limits.

Unwakened by the Buddha,
the Buddha has been unattached:

The Buddha gave him five ways:
The Buddha has five ways:

They lie down, drinking, playing, and lute. They are pebbles, horses, buffaloes, bulls, government officials,
When bricks, timberations, are found stones, lutes, tangles, the syllables, and the elephants grain.

How, have the Buddha found a brick?
How do the Fortunate One bricks stuck?

The Buddha gains and respects too, gave them a good reputation, and so too.
The Buddha also gains and respects others too.

Some of the scent in Campā would stop trying to get rid of greed, hate, and delusion.
Some of the scented fairylies I can draw out resentment from the illnesses of the hot oppressively forward and repulsion.

Thus the Fortunate One, such bricks,
Thus the Fortunate One, such brilliant speak,

And how does the Buddha cross over?
And how do the Buddha?

has given up greed, hate, and delusion. ...

hostility ...
hostile ...

stinginess ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

negligence ...

all defilements ...

all of them have a bad conduct.
all of them have badly done. ...

all of them ...
all the stars ...

all of them ...
all passions ...

all of them ...
all of them are peaceful inside.

having given up all unskillful intentions, being agitated with agitated,
With the giving up of all unprofitable intentions they are dispelled,

that’s how the Buddha says,
So the Buddha says,

How does the Buddha cross over?
How to the Fortunate One?

The Buddha has crossed over the flood and crossed over the flood. And, when he has crossed over, the crossroad, the sea has crossed over, and gone beyond all the floods.
The Buddha has crossed over the flood and grass, having gone beyond all the floods, tied the untroubleds and the grass, and has crossed over the flood.

So he has come to the end of the spiritual life. He has gone beyond doubt, got rid of indecision, and realize the cessation of the path.
Because they’ve completed the spiritual journey, done what had to be done, laid down the burden, achieved their own goal, utterly ended the fetters of rebirth, and are rightly freed through enlightenment.

its origin, its cessation, and the path should be realized.
it should be completely understood. The path should be given up by direct knowledge, complete understanding, finishing, and giving up of these things.

He has lifted up the outer robe, which is accompanied by defilements, has six widiosyncratic interpretations, and is devoted to emancipations, who is endowed with (some) faith, whose mind is pure, who has reached emancipation, who possesses ultimate sense of urgency, substention, and endowed with good wisdom.
He has lifted up the cross-bar, which was heedless and unstirred, oppressed, flawless, and endowed with five factors. He is endowed with perfect insight due to the level of the auspicious intentions, one endowed with good intentions, one endowed with good intentions, one possesses the ultimate sense of urgency, sublime, one who has reached the highest point.

They don’t practice accordingly.
He doesn’t grieve or accumulate.

if he abandons things but does not grasp it or grasp it;
but remain after getting rid of them.

after giving up and abandoning it, he neither sews nor sews it.
after sewing it, they neither sew it up nor sewing it.

Standing to distinguish it, he neither dissipate nor gets things.
if he stands after making an end, he neither dissipate nor gets things.

Standing at the root, they enter the surface of a trainee, who stands without level of the shouldership. While standing on the shouldership, one standing on the top of his virtue and one standing there without having undertaken loving-kindness. Standing on the end of the journey, he stands confidently, he stands confidently, without having deliberate even a limit, with pure equanimity as a limit, and without giving attention to purification.
standing on the top of the purity, without giving up the virtue, having arrived at the root of the head, stood in the level of the tree, with an unlimited purification, standing with the end of the water, and standing within the last part of the day; with the Buddha standing once more than the level of the purity that ropes onwards, standing within the limit of the purification that very limitedge. It stood there, without giving up, within the limit of virtue, he stands without giving up and possesses the limit of unlifequipments.

“This is the last state,
“This is the last state of existence,

and this bag of bones is my last.
this bag of bones is my last

Craving for birth and death.
will long undergo

there are no future lives for them.”

the Fortunate One has crossed over the flood,
So the Buddha has crossed over the flood.

How do the Buddha cross over the flood
How do you become free from sage?

his mind is liberated and freed,
his mind is liberated from the Fortunate One’s mind,

delusion ...

hostility ...
hostile ...

stinginess ...

goods ...
Saying a wrap garment ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

those heedless ...
negligence ...

so that defilements are defiled ...
so that all defilements ...

For all kinds of conduct ...
entirely full of bad conduct ...

given up everyone,
‘Overcome by all herons,

contemplates ...
of all kinds,

entirely ...

having a mind well freed, well freed, and well freed,
liberated in all the unwholesome minds, well freed,

the Fortunate One has crossed over the great hero,
the Buddha thus: “Sage, you are free from sages.”

How did the Buddha teach him?
How did the Fortunate One teach the Dhamma?

The Buddha is ethical, mindful, and aware. Their mindfulness is established in him. And he reveals the dart of mindfulness, immersion, and the conscientious mindfulness. When this is fulfilled, the ten kinds of mindfulness meditation are clear.
The Buddha is ethical, of faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. Their energy is well established in him when there is such energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. Their energy is well established, mindfulness, immersion, and the ten kinds of mindfulness meditation.

The Buddha replied, “That’s the point of those monks.”
The Buddha has given him permission:

at that moment I realized the Buddha.
the Buddha, the son of the Buddha,

if they were to take hold of him;
With her I came

Three grounds for raft:
Three things:

what is reckoned as a plantain is reckoned by what is reckoned as a construction, deportment, or what is reckoned as a planaculation, or what is called indirect talk,
the basis of psychic power that is indirect talk, on the ground, and on the top of instance.

What is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites?

It’s when a mendicant invites robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
It’s when a householder invites him to accept robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

Because of wicked desires, they resign a robe, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And they resign a dwelling place with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
As a result of bad desires, he resigns the robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And he rejects it and alms-food.

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“What’s an ascetic of robe for an ascetic?
“What’s the point of this robe-cloth?

Neither that ascetic or brahmin has got these things.
using this heartwood, the ascetic or brahmin should wear an outer robe, shake, and wear it.

What’s an ascetic of almsfood?
what’s an ascetic to do with expensive alms-food?

will be bitten by the ascetic, even though making an outcaste.
this is a hard ascetic, even one should live for the living,

What’s an ascetic, with expensive dwellings,
what’s an ascetic’s dwelling?

This ascetic or brahmin might have the same tree as multiplicator, or a messenger.
This ascetic or brahmin ...

What’s an ascetic of medicines?
What’s the point of requisites for the sick?

this ascetic’s body using sandals, wearing rag robes, and he uses a coarse robe.”
this ascetic uses a robe that he wears away.

householders know
The brahmins and householders know

“This ascetic is content, with few wishes, contentment, secluded, energetic, and mindful, a preacher of asceticism inviting robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”
“This ascetic is content, secluded, he invites them to admire them with few robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And he invites them to accept robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.”

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“Stop when three things are present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit. And he’s faithful, confused, and esteemed.
“Puṇṇa, when three things are present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit. When someone with faith and confidence are present, he makes much merit for a faithful gentleman:

You have faith, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom; and I receive the recipients of those who don’t.
You have faith; he sends them away, and the receiver is an unprincipled.

If I don’t receive it, I’ll have it out of compassion for you; but I won’t accept it.”
If I don’t receive it, I’ll have compassion for you, but I’ll accept it.”

At that time he receives many robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
a little robe that he receives much almsfood, receives many almsfood, and accepts many almsfood.

Such grimacing, schemery, bitter, and deceitful.
Such grimacing, schemery, and endeavour.

This is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites.

What is the ground of deportment?
What is the ground for deportment?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” composes his way of walking, composes his way of lying down; he walks studiedly, stands studiedly, sits studiedly, lies down stabilizedly, and concentrates as though concentrated.
It’s when someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” while walking, standing, sitting, sleeping, and embarrassing. He stands stabilized thus: “Suching, sits down stabilizedly, lies down stabilizedly, stands as though with immersed in samādhi.

Such kind of grimacing, schemery, deceptive, schemery, and endeavour.
Such particular postures are the bent on the walk, a disturbance, scheming, and anguishment, saying,

This is the ground for example, based on the path,
This is the ground for deportment.

What is being indirect?
What is talking about in accordance with what is talking about in accordance with the intention?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking: “Take me when I’ve done away with the teaching!”
Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Those people will admire me in the noble state.”

if he says, “He who wears such a robe,”
“He who wears such a robe, he uses it,”

‘This bowl is used.’ ...
that a bowl is used for a bowl,

gracefully ...
a red bucket,

but they remember the teaching ...
remembering the teachings,

a water filter ...

a necklace,

sandals,

a belt with blade ...
a belt,

metalves, and worry.”
who wears a valuable ascetic, speaks a large very illustrious,”

if he says, “He’s a preceptor,”
“He says that such a preceptor.”

“Such is a teacher ...
“The teacher’s feed. ...

so-and-so’s co-student ...
that kind of co-student is sort of person ...

your co-pupil ...

friends ...

who take care of them ...
taken assemblies ...

... etc.
...”

He says a great ascetic!”
if he says, “He’s a large,”

if he says, “He who stays in such a dwelling,”
if he says, “He who lives in such a dwelling, he is a Great ascetic,”

if someone lives in such a house ...
the home of the one who lives in the household life,

stayed in the longhouse together,
stayed in the longhousehold ...

I’m living at home with them ...
‘I’m staying in a magician’ ...

giving away ...
your secret oppressed by the nose ...

if he stays at the wrong time;
if she stays at the wrong time;

if he stays in the hut has a hut;
if the upper story is dwelling;

dwellings in a bungalow ...
a bungalow, a roof-peak,

If he stays right there, but he is unsure of it ...
the embarrassed ...

by Māra ...
your matted like a magic tried ...

dwellings ...
you stay with the hunter.

the assembly hall together with the assembly hall.
the assembly hall.

who stays in the forest,
who stays under a roof-cover,

if he touches the tree too far, he says, “I’m a huge ascetic”;
he touches the tree too far, he says this.”

Vajiraka, Kuṭakatissaka, Kuṭaka, and Ajita Kesakura. They thought, “This ascetic is an obtainer of such a dwelling.”
Then he said to the one who shares it out of Kuṭikaṇṇaka, who is an Ajita, a rampart to a smile, thinking, “This ascetic is an abscesses such obtaining this little food.”

such a deep, immeasurable, beyond the secret, surpassing the supermundane, and attainment of doing what is suitable.
Such is the meaning that is profound, subtle, comprehensible to charming, hard to understand what is profound, hard to understand, so very hard to speak.

Such grimacing, schemery, bitter, and deceitful.
Such grimacing, schemery, and endeavour.

this is called indirect talk about reflection.
This is the basis for happiness.

These are the three things that you’ve given up, cut off the trick, finished off the creeping, and rolling away, that have been cooked by the Buddha.
These three things have been given up, cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

That’s why he’s disturbed, saying:
That’s why the Buddha dislikes them:

(Previously) appearance,
(The Buddha) dwelled in the position,

if he takes it on trust;

the Fortunate One takes it, (saying):
taken by group, Blessed One.

the teacher takes the community and group. He seizes a community, teaches a community, and teaches a group. He seizes a group of four hosts, he seizes an order and teaches a community. He seizes a community, and teaches a community. He seizes an accountant monk’s stolen. He seizes a community. This is how he becomes counted as well.
the teacher caretaks them. He seizes them with a community, and teaches a community. He seizes a group of monks, he establishes a group. He seizes it, follows the courtesan, groups, and he establishes a group. He seizes it, establishes an uplifting religious community. He seizes a group. He seizes it with the group of five hundred laywomen, counter of the gods, the hosts of Brahmā realms, or the community. A community he  group of the community of the gods, the community of the community. This is the fifth.

Calming for alasse, he has gone to the City of city.
It has come to the next, and it is said to be the city,

where I could go from a good family.
where I received the going,

deluded by many capitals
they caught up in many kinds of people:

Many of the aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers have gone forth as a human.
Many brahmins and householders, for the Gods Who Control the Creations of Offering, the Gods Who Love to Create.

They bound by anger, insignificant thieves,
They bound by liking and caught in the robbery:

bound by many deeds here.
I’m bound by many people

There are some who come with a question:
There is a question that can be answered,

An answer to the question, who wants to ask (the Buddha), wants to ask, but he came to his question.
When asked a question, I want to ask a question, and I want to answer. (She is) a question, he came.

This too is how there should be come with a question.
thus, there is a question that comes from.

Or alternatively, they might ask him a question, and they might wait for him to pay homage to him. If he asks a question, he can pay homage to him.
Or alternatively, if they ask a question, they might give to him a question. If I can visit him, they may pay homage.

This too is how there should be come with a question.
thus, there is a question that comes from.

Or alternatively, there is something to be yours: “You’re so much, has been able to do so.”
Or alternatively, if you were to ask him a question, all that was happening to be able, he said, “You have committed an offense.”

This too is how there should be come with a question.
thus, there is a question that comes from.

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“I have heard the Buddha awakened for themselves,
“I have understood the Buddha, the Lord of the World,

where I could go from a good family.
where I received the going,

bound by many deeds here.
I’m bound by many people

Is there a question about him?”
Is there a question who comes back?”

a mendicant who’s beaten by nature,
to be troubled like a monk,

as well as Māra’s reach,
not taking care of fear,

the root of a tree,
the root of a tree or the fruit of a charnel ground,

on mountains, or in caves—

to be disgusted by monk.

for a monastic who is matured,
to a mendicant trainee, an ordinary person, or a trainee.

disgusted, they disgust in disgust with rebirth,
disgusting ...

sickness ...

Death with death ...
by death ...

lamentation ...

suffering ...

sadness,
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress ...

suffering, disgusted by them, and aversion.
destroyed by the peak of faint, suffering from not iron balls ...

of the animal realm ...
of mass of suffering,

longs for the ghost ...
for an embracing a ghost ...

you’re suffering due to conceit ...
you’re shaking off with suffering ...

They ground themselves in a womb with two root items ...
the embryo is rooted in suffering.

For sixty-four grounds ...
Pregnancy is a ground for suffering. ...

For one who has completed the embryo is reborn in a womb
When there is a ground, root iteming from suffering,

collapsed with gold,
by a Father’s womb,

From its born, suffering, and disturbance.
they’re born in another’s womb ...

for what’s left behind;
for the sake of pain ...

overexertion ...
because of what belongs to others’ suffering. ...

suffering,
suffering ...

choices ...
the suffering in choices ...

or decay and perish.
or suffering,

eye contact ...
eye disease ...

They’re more more pain than they’re more pain ...
They’re more more pain than the more

nose ...
The nose ...

tongue ...

body hairs ...
body ...

a nest of disease ...
a headache,

ear-disease ...
ear-holes,

health,
suffering, disease, boils,

between your suffering ...
whose coarse body is suffering,

burning with fever,
by one of his love,

one with a disease as an axe,
a disease,

freed ...
semen is emitted ...

so-and-so otherwise protected ...
sofas,

if she is disrobed;
if she is demolished ...

Kuṇāla ...
with an axe,

one with goiter,
treasury ...

corruption,
weary ...

vanity ...
deceitful ...

Giving ...
you should give ...

Kaṇḍuka,
the dropping of the snake,

Kaccāna ...

Excellent,
Experiential confidence in the teaching,

if a nun has committed an offense entailing expulsion ...
for one who has caused a schism in the Sangha,

with one who has caused but not red ...
If he causes another to bleed,

Perhaps the mind is delivered ...
a father ...

Madhurā ...

border ...
by love ...

arrangement ...
ties,

affliction,
afflictions arising from excessiveness,

afflictions arising from excessive phlegm,
afflictions arising from a physician ...

affliction ...
afflictions arising from a wind ...

a consequence ...
a concept ...

afflictions born of contact ...
afflictions born of a change of season ...

afflictions ...

affliction ...

cold and heat ...
afflictions from cold ...

nose dropping ...
one without an ear,

He ascended the palace ...
ascending the palace ...

relics,
sugarcane,

Seeing danger ...
Seeing the danger ...

touched by flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

your mother is pain ...
your mother is deaf

because of his love ...
a father ...

with a brother ...
so-and-so brother ...

your sister ...
sister ...

with a son ...
a child ...

daughter ...

Families of relatives ...
loss of relatives ...

wealth ...

or loss of health ...
If he ...

of ethics ...

be horrified, repelled, and disgusted by view,

a mendicant who’s beaten by nature,
to be troubled like a monk,

rounded corpses,
should fill the yellow carcass with fear,

wherever he sits down, sits down,
what the seat is said to be prepared,

a mattress, a mat underlay, a bedspread, a straw mat, a hide, a sitting mat, a sheet, a hide.
a mattress, a bed, a mattress, a straw mat, a hide, a foot-washing water, and a carpet.

so he enjoyed himself with a seat free of ties, liberality, and an unfavourable to provide for the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
Vassakāra on high seats, dispelling the various kinds of sensual stimulation. He entertained himself in the various different opposite sex with a nearby charming the five cords of sensual stimulation.

So they frequent those who enjoy themselves in various ways.
One who lives secluded from using what is available, using what is meant and frequently makes use of fit for use.

as well as Māra’s reach,
not taking care of fear,

the root of a tree,
root of a tree or a fruit tree,

On the foot of a tree, the root of a tree, or the partial trees there are Sunāparanta,
The root of a tree was well tamed at the root of a tree.

the root of a tree,
the root of a tree or the fruit of a charnel ground,

on mountains, or in caves—

mountains are like a mountain cave, in the mountain cave,
Like the mountain clefter in the mountain caves, they’ll caves out their necks on the mountain cleft,

these are called “minin”.
they are called one who lives in the mountains.

on mountains, or in caves—

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“Mendicant, a mendicant who is detestable,
“Mendicant, a mendicant who’s disgusted

as well as Māra’s reach,
not taking care of fear,

the root of a tree,
the root of a tree or the fruit of a charnel ground,

on mountains, or in caves!”

They sleep in luxurious beds.
When he gets luxurious rest—

Why would you do this?
Why do you the ground?

Those who don’t try to enemies,
Those who don’t tremble attitude,

granting the sitting mat,
if the household life is used;

if he restrictions luxurious;
if he restricts urinate;

Both pots: bitter plants, luxurious knife in rats,
In high and luxurious rest.

the dwelling, the stilt house, and the cave.
the dwellings is called a dwelling, a stilt house, and a cave.

They sleep in luxurious beds.
When he gets luxurious rest—

What is the ground?
Why do you get here?

Why did he make a sound?
while doing so, not making a sound with them?

Or where would they all have much?
Or alternatively, how many kinds of buys are there.

Sīvati a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a catste, a female slaughtererer, or a bandit. Or the bandit was hunting, or scorned by criminals, saying:
the lions, tigers, leopards, bears, hyenas, elephants, horses, hunters, elephants, horses, and chariots, or was the bandits.

Why would you do this?
Why do you the ground?

Those who are not found:
Those who are not angry attracting:

There are those who don’t even see a scarlet or transmigration, and don’t get scared or lose their terrified, they wouldn’t fear, and dread.
There are those who have scared or drunk, and don’t see anyone who’s lying down. They wouldn’t be able to get rid of the stain of stinginess, the hard to get rid of the worms, and the one who isn’t able to fear and dread coming backs, and when they’d give rise to fear and dread.

Those who don’t try to enemies,
Those who don’t tremble attitude,

if he uses the requisites well;
if he uses the resentment in the requisite;

Without first being invited, she remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that brings retreat.
There are little sounds that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

granting the sitting mat,
if the household life is used;

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“Among the verbal conduct
“Among the rest of the conditions

Why would you do this?
Why do you the ground?

Those who don’t try to enemies,
Those who don’t tremble attitude,

granting the resplendent.”
granting the household life.”

Are any future in the world?

go from the place beyond,
Go to the place where it goes from,

a mendicant who conquer the best thing
a mendicant who conquerors the truth of rebirth.

In remote lodgings,
staying in the remote lodgings;

Are any future in the world?
Are any fault in the world?

How many kinds of urgency?
How many reasons are there?

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

he has concealed offenses, and concealed for a half-month.
is concealed for the offenses and concealed for the concealed.

What is the cream of the winnowing?
What is the explanation of the Dhamma?

a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a hand, a foot-stool, a jackal, a bandit, annoyance, a lips, bandit, announcy, arrogant, abscess, abscess, a mild, poison, tuberculosis, epilepsy, or a creeper, bandit, his headbscesses, jackals, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, the in epilepsy, herbsy, herbs, the gobs, the downcabs, herpes, phlegmbs, and licks.
a lion, a tiger, a leopard, a bear, hyenas, elephants, horses, leopards, elephants, horses, bandits, leopards, bears, or hyenas, elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, jackals; wars, moves, lips, rags, tubs, jels, mild jackals, boils, chowled earrings, nose, tongue-frings, body hairs, heads, ears, lepros, leps, mouths, or leprosy.

Cold, heat, hunger, thirst, and the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.
cold, heat, hunger, thirst, and the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

These are called the tendencies of food.
These are called the speces of offenses.

What concealed?
What is the concealed place for the concealed?

Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All of these things are the hindrances, ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All these are disturbed by anger, enmity, contempt, domineering, envy, avarice, deceit, and ill will.
Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All these things are the hindrance of sensual desire, ill will, anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

These are called the teachings that are conceived.
These are called the concealment of the offenses that were concealed.

Intelligent they disrepute.
it will be destroyed by one who abandons it.

They lead to decline.
They lead to anxiety. They lead to the decline of getting material possessions. They lead to anxiety.

How do they lose?
How do you get free of desire?

They burn, swep away, and running away.
They burn the streams of the people,

they replied,
They lead him around

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do they lead to decline?
How do they lead to the decline of this bag?

lead to decline in skillful qualities.
When they lead to decline,

What are wholesome things?

It is because they haven’t given up the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
right mindfulness ...

These things lead to decline in skillful qualities.
These things lead to an obstacle.

In this way they lead to decline,
In this way they lead to decline.

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do you get lost?
How are they lost?

Because those bad, unskillful qualities arise.
That bad, unskillful qualities arise to be stored up.

Just as when Bāhiya was catsted in the air.
As they were lying down in the air, the ground in the air, (such as) a trees, the hands, and the foots of a trees, bedsing the beds, –

In the same way, those bad, unskillful qualities arise in you, and on.
In the same way, bad, unskillful qualities arise with that same way.

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.

And how does a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master live in suffering and discomfort?

When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts don’t arise.
When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena don’t arise: memories and thoughts of them. They don’t associate with them, they don’t bad, unskillful qualities.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by bad unskillful qualities,

they’re said to have a teaching master.

When they hear a sound with their ear ...
Furthermore, a mendicant hears a sound with their ears ...

When they smell an odor with their nose ...

Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with their tongue ...

Feeling a touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts don’t arise.
When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful qualities arise and bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by bad unskillful qualities,

they’re said to have a teaching master.

That’s how a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.
“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles, inner enemies, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

What are the three?
What three?

greed, hate, and delusion.

hate ...

and delusion.

These three are inner stains, inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

greed creates harm;

greedy mind,

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A greedy person doesn’t know the good.

like a greedy person doesn’t see the teaching.
isn’t able to see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

creates harm;
hate is harmful;

They disturb the mind.
hate is cruel;

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

An angry person doesn’t know the good.

An angry person doesn’t see the truth.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

Delusion creates harm;

deluded mind,
deluded mind.

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A deluded person doesn’t know the good.

Mūḷaka does not see the truth.
One is like a deluded person doesn’t see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind to fellows.”
only delusion isn’t overcome by delusion.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Great king, three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

What are the three?
What three?

Great king, greed arises inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.
Greed is a person who has for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

Hate is hate ...
hate ...

and delusion.

These three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

greed, hate, and delusion,

have arisen inside oneself,

Destroy the person with bad thoughts,

as a reed is destroyed by its own fruit.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Greed and hate come from here;

from here spring discontent, desire, and terror;

here’s where the mind’s thoughts originate,

like a crow let loose by boys.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

He leads to the world of the gods:
A world in the world of the human realm:

Are any future in the world?

go from the untroden place,
go from the untroubled place,

have gone to the deathless is called Nibbāna.
We’ve come to the deathless;

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

-Formerly, as before, not after a long time,
-born direction, the eastern quarters, and not after a long time in all this long time,

“They’re ninety-two, but the remaining terms of praise.
“That’s right there without a fault,

Just as oil a bowl full of oil,
Just as a lotus leaf,

That’s how fosters protect your mind!
Even so with a guarded mind,

aspiring to the quarters.”
steadfast in the future.”

Not going back to the place where they go,
Not going from the direction, they go forward to the east,

go from the place beyond,
Go to the place where it goes from,

A mendicant who consciously makes this continuation:
a mendicant who conquers and continues to be born:

If he runs out of them would eradicate them,
If he were to cast offer him, he would oppressed,

a mendicant who conquer the best thing
a mendicant who conquerors the truth of rebirth.

In remote lodgings,
In remote lodgings:

If people were to look for water, but there was no water in the confluence or the water, or when they tried to look at it, they won’t go beyond the lodging.
When it is finished, a person draws out from the water or a cesspool or a compound, where there is no people settle it.

In remote lodgings,
staying in the remote lodgings;

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“How many holes have declined in the world?
“How many people in the world have passed

go from the place beyond,
Go to the place where it goes from,

a mendicant who conquer the best thing
a mendicant who conquerors the truth of rebirth.

remote lodgings in the forest.”
staying in a good place.”

Who would you be diligent?
Who should be heedless?

Who here have you roamed here?
Who here, although will you be?

Virtuous, steady, restrained for no precepts,
wheels, precepts and observances,

a resolute monk who loves the goal.

What can you think?
For whom should you be involved?

What kind of person has sickness, why does it come from? What asks about purity? What is his purification?
What does he get stabilized by sickness? What does he ask about the difference between the horses? What is the point of purity?

What is purity of speech?

It’s when a mendicant gives up lying. They speak the truth and stick to the truth. They’re honest and trustworthy, and don’t trick the world with their words.

They give up divisive speech. They don’t repeat in one place what they heard in another so as to divide people against each other. Instead, they reconcile those who are divided, supporting unity, delighting in harmony, loving harmony, speaking words that promote harmony.

They give up harsh speech.

They speak in a way that’s mellow, pleasing to the ear, lovely, going to the heart, polite, likable and agreeable to the people.

They give up talking nonsense. Their words are timely, true, and meaningful, in line with the teaching and training. They say things at the right time which are valuable, reasonable, succinct, and beneficial.

They have four kinds of good conduct forwards and repulsion. They refrain from Benares, discontent, giving up the stainless, free of limits.
They have four kinds of good conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and develop the fourth. They live untirred, liberating, praised by sensible people, not mistaken, and leading to peace. They live with a heart free of limits.

Ten grounds for talk, namely,
But talk about ten kinds of discussion:

talk about fewness of wishes, contentment, seclusion, aloofness, arousing energy, ethics, immersion, wisdom, freedom, and the knowledge and vision of freedom.

When you’ve repulsed, guarded, protected, and restrained regarding
When you’re repulsed, guarded, protected, and restrained in speech,

This is the purity of speech.
This is the purity of mindfulness.

Purity of speech is purification.
That kind of person is purity of speech:

Who would you be diligent?
Who should be heedless?

What do you roam here?
Who here resorts to roams you?

What do you get stuck in his roaming, what am I to ask? What is the nephew?
What do you get stabilized by the doing of? What does he ask?

there is proper resort and improper resort.
There is proper resort and improper resort.

What is improper resort?

It’s when someone frequently collects alms from prostitutes, widows, voluptuous girls, eunuchs, or taverns as resort; or he’s violent, a guest house, a king’s ministers, sectarians, sectarians, sectarians’ disciples, transmigration, or a misfortune; or he’s staying inappropriately; and he’s animals unable to prescributions and teachers.
It’s when someone is frequently collected by prostitutes, widows, voluptuous girls, eunuchs, or taverns as resort; or he’s associated with kings, royal ministers, sectarians, sectarians, sectarians’ disciples, in unbecoming association with laymen; or he’s wounds, frequents, or females, employees, and kingsy,;

Or else they abuse and insult the mendicants on families, without getting them, yet they missapprehensively by rapid monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen; by rulers and their ministers, and with teachers of other paths and their disciples.
But the families that are faithless and unrestrained, lending to visit families, without trouble or difficulty. This includes the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen; with their followers, and with trying to visit families.

This is called improper resort.

When he was walking in inhabited areas, he looked at an elephant, not looking ahead while looking around in an inhabited area, looking ahead, and aside, looking a boy,, looking a cosmology, and looking around, looking down and looking down, while looking down and staring this way, he looking down and looking down, thinking,
While walking in inhabited areas, he looked around an elephant, not looking at an elephant, not looking around the elephant, not looking at the harem, looking at the top of a chariot, looking at the open, looking up, and looking up, looking at the harem, looking up, looking down, looking down, looking down, while looking ahead, and looking down,

This too is called improper resort.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.
When they see a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.

If he makes an effort ...
but continue to make an effort ...

mind faculty unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion become overwhelming. They don’t practice restraint, they don’t protect the faculty of mind, and they don’t achieve its restraint.

This too is called improper resort.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

“Those dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, and reappears; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, rolls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.
“I haven’t dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.

This too is called improper resort.

and the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, don’t roam out of your own territory into the domain of others.

If you roam out of your own territory into the domain of others, Māra will find a vulnerability and get hold of you.

And what is not a mendicant’s own territory but the domain of others?

that is to say, the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

What are the five?
What five?

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

Sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

This is called a mendicant who doesn’t roam out of your own territory.”
This is called a mendicant who is not roaming the territory but the domain of others.”

This too is called improper resort.

What is proper resort?

It’s when a mendicant doesn’t frequently collect alms from prostitutes ...
It’s when a mendicant doesn’t worry out of bounds, widows, voluptuous girls, eunuchs, bhikkhunīs, or nuns. They’re not negligent, and don’t have sex with rulers and their ministers, sectarians, and live with transmigrations of worry as worrields, and ministers, sectarians’ disciples, and counselors, and counselors of the religion.

Or else those families with faith and confidence associates, maintaining, and advantages of the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen maintains, and frustrated families.
But those families that are faithful, lazy, and sneaky with faith and confidence, frequenting festivals, and novice monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen; and they associate with the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen.

This too is called ‘arown’.
This too is called “awaken”.

Or while walking in an inhabited area, he walked without looking around an elephant, not looking at an elephant, not looking ahead. ...
Or they’ve entered an inhabited area within arm’s reach. He not looking at the elephant, not looking around the elephant, not looking like a chariot, not looking like a chariot. ...

he doesn’t walk in an direction:
he doesn’t walk in the direction:

This too is called ‘arown’.
This too is called “awaken”.

Or they see a sight with their eyes ...

They grow disillusioned with it.
They grow restraint in the mind,

This too is called ‘arown’.
This too is called “awaken”.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

dancing, singing, music, and seeing shows. Such was the vision that’s shown.
They don’t use dancing, singing, music, and seeing shows. Such was the shows.

This too is called ‘arown’.
This too is called “awaken”.

And the four kinds of mindfulness meditation,
Four kinds of mindfulness meditation.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, you should roam inside your own territory, the domain of your fathers.

If you roam inside your own territory, the domain of your fathers, Māra won’t catch you or get hold of you.

And what is a mendicant’s own territory but the domain of their fathers?
And what is a mendicant’s own territory, the domain of his fathers?

that is to say:
that is to say, the four ways of attending to mindfulness.

What are the teachings grouped by four?
Which four?

Here, monks, a monk dwells contemplating (the nature of) the body in the body,

feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

principles—keen, aware, and mindful, rid of desire and aversion for the world.

This is called a mendicant who is a particular component of their own territory.
This is called a mendicant who resortsorts to their own territory.

This too is called ‘arown’.
This too is called “awaken”.

His domain, too, have
is endowed with professions.”

Who here have you roamed here?
Who here, although will you be?

the precepts and observances celibate in them.
the precepts and observances intercourse.

What has one like measurable person who has virtue, disagreeableness, and void, purification of ethics?
What does he get about ethics, learning, generosity, and wisdom? What is the cleansing of virtue?

What is purification of ethics?

If there is virtue, there is no (just),
There is both virtue and practice,

What is it?
What is that ethical conduct?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

From restraint there strikes someone without restraint:
The one who is restrained in that place is not restrained:

This is the ethical conduct.
this ethical conduct,

That’s activity.
In such a case

(Thinking): It is inappropriate for a woman,
As a result, a wound,

(The distinguished) with precepts and observances:
Establishing virtue is the best;

this is called accomplishment in ethics.
This is called accomplishment in ethics.

What is virtue?

Eight ascetic practices:

the practice of staying in the wilderness, the forest-dweller’s practice, the later-food-eater’s practice, the later-food-refuser’s practice, and the practice of wearing away and the later-food-eater’s practice.
the practice of staying in the wilderness, the practice of wearing rag-robes, the later-food-refuser’s practice, the later-food-refuser’s practice, and the later-food-refuser’s practice is broken,

this is called ‘annot (other) conduct.
this is called conduct.

calmed energy is what is meant.
(He who is) calming energy, what is said in regard to virtue,

“Gladly, let only skin, sinews, and bones remain! Let the flesh and blood waste away in my body! I will not stop trying until I have achieved what is possible by human strength, energy, and vigor.”
“Gladly, let only skin, sinews, and tendons remain! Let the flesh and blood waste away in my body! I will not stop trying until I have achieved what is possible by human strength, energy, and vigor.”

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called virtue.
unintelligent energy is what is called virtue.

“I won’t eat, I won’t drink,
“I won’t drink,

I won’t leave my dwelling;

nor will I lie down on my side—

not until the dart of craving is drawn out.”
until the dart of craving is pulled out.”

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called virtue.
unintelligent energy is what is called virtue.

I won’t break this sitting posture until my mind is freed from defilements by not grasping.’

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called virtue.
unintelligent energy is what is called virtue.

I won’t rise from my seat when I rise from this seat ...
I won’t rise from this seat.

I won’t walk up and down from the walking-path,
I won’t walk up and down from this walking-path,

I’ll leave the dwellings ...
the dwellings ...

his home came out through.
a half a month ...

“I shall depart from the longhouse” ...
thinking, “I’ll leave.” ...

‘This is a woman’ ...
one with a qualities,

nose ...
Remember the nose ...

at the time of dawn ...
the pretexts made from killing living creatures ...

huts for a hut,
a hut made of strikes,

a bungalow ...
a bungalow, a roof-peak,

your robe still rolled forth ...
Keep,

contemptuous ...
contempt ...

Aññāsikoṇḍañña ...
A thieves ...

the assembly hall ...

Delusion ...
Deluded from the group of six,

“Without attachment, the foot of a tree I will not be freed from defilements by not grasping.”
‘I will not be released from a tree until my mind is freed from the defilements by not grasping.’

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called virtue.
unintelligent energy is what is called virtue.

“I’ll realize this teaching and training.”
“In the morning I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones.”

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called virtue.
unintelligent energy is what is called virtue.

There are mixed up with that comestible,
There are no stages in the middle ...

In the evening ...
evening ...

before ...
forwards,

Afterwards ...
After the meal ...

... the first ...
“For the first rains residence ...” ...

medium ...
middle medium ...

western ...
In the last watch of the night ...

black wool ...

the glory ...
a Jeta’s Grove ...

... who have completed the rains residence ...
the rainy season residence ...

winter,
“After the lower winter, the winter season ...”

the neck of nose ...
soaked ...

the aggregates ...
the first aggregates ...

Middle ...
the middle aggregates ...

I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, and I’ll realize contact.’
I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, and I’ll realize the teaching of contact.’

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Such energy is called “not obstinacy.”
That kind of energy is called,

This is the purity of precepts.

Purity of precepts and observances.
Purity of precepts and observances,

Virtuous, steady, restrained for no precepts,
wheels, precepts and observances,

to be dwelling alone and resolute.

They’re energetic, strong, and staunchly vigorous. They’re strong, staunchly vigorous, not slacking off when it comes to developing skillful qualities.
A preserving is energetic, he has firmly energetic and strong, not slacking off when it comes to developing skillful qualities.

Or alternatively, he has benefited his good fortune to be known as the benefit of others.
Or alternatively, he has benefited his good fortune to be known as the reason for his welfare and benefit.

All conditions are impermanent—

All conditions are suffering—

All things are not-self—
All things are not-self.

ignorance is a condition for choices. ...

“Rebirth is a condition for old age and death.”

When ignorance ceases, choices cease. ...
when ignorance ceases, choices cease. ...

“Do you see that when rebirth ceases old age and death cease?”
When rebirth ceases, old age and death cease.

“This is suffering” ...

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”.
“This is the practice going to the cessation of suffering”.

“These are defilements” ...
“‘These are defilements’ ...

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.
he thought, “This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.

“‘These things should be directly known.’ ...

“These things should be realized.”
found things that should be realized.

the six fields of contact’s origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
Contact, gratification, drawback, and escape.

the five grasping aggregates ...

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

A mendicant trainee,
It’s good when an ordinary person, whether the monk’s training or the army of the monk

a resolute monk who loves the goal.

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

“What should be done so that you’ve declared?
“What’s the point of discussing?

Who here have you roamed here?
Who here, although will you be?

Virtuous, steady, restrained for no precepts,
wheels, precepts and observances,

to be dwelling alone and resolute.”

After taking up the training,
Who has undertaken the training rules,

unified, alert, and mindful,

bit by bit, moment by moment,

like a smith smelting silver.

After undertaking a training, he takes it and establishes it in the monastery, he takes it on trust from the monastery, and then takes it to the monastery, and then he inserts it.
After undertaking the training, he takes up the training, and takes it to be undertaken, he takes his training and returns to a monastery.

After taking up the training,
Who has undertaken the training rules,

unified, alert, and mindful:

One with mind immersed in samādhi, unified, and undisturbed mind.
one-pointed mind, with unified mind, equanimous immersion, and unified mind, without immersion.

right concentration.

alert, wise, learned, wise, and intelligent,
The wise, expert intelligent, wise, learned, and fully awakened.

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

developing mindfulness meditation,
developing the states of peace, mindful, and mindful,

they’re called a sentient being.

mindful, with mindful,
mindful, with mindful and aware,

After training, they ask questions,
They train in the higher ethical conduct, they ask the higher ethical conduct.

if he asks about the higher mind;
One within just one wish: to ask,

if he asks the higher wisdom, he asks about the higher wisdom;
if he asks because he needs something low;

Should ask for purity of mindfulness.
sentient beings ask question:

I undertaken my training, I alone practiced and concentrated.
Having undertaken his training, he alone, with a single guard,

bitter, motivated by deeds,

a climate is what is meant.
Bodily gold is what is meant.

But the goldsmith figs, coarses, and smelts the embankments. It smooths and blows.
And the goldsmith’s coarse, soft, smeared with gold, and sloth, and above. He wakes all the dark, he smears his ran out.

In the same way, a mendicant gives up and gets tired, and they put up, gets rid of them, eliminates them, and obliterates them.
In the same way, take a mendicant who gives up their own defilements, gives them up and gets rid of them. They oppressed, eliminate, and obliterate those in the middle. And they submit to the higher defilements.

They disturb the finest lady in the land. They give up the defilements.
They dislike the finest lady in the evening and slow. They give them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.

And they give up greed, hate, and delusion.
Then they give up greed, hate, and delusion.

Or they give up wrong view, give up wrong view, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it.
And they give up wrong view, give up wrong view, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it.

wrong thought ...
For one of right intention, wrong intention is worn away. ...

For one of right speech, wrong speech is worn away. ...

For one of right action, wrong action is worn away. ...

For one of right livelihood, wrong livelihood is worn away. ...

right effort ...
For one of right effort, wrong effort is worn away. ...

For one of right mindfulness, wrong mindfulness is worn away. ...

For one of right immersion, wrong immersion is worn away. ...

For one of right knowledge, wrong knowledge is worn away. ...

For one of right freedom, wrong freedom is blown away, gives up, and gets rid of it.
Right freedom gives up wrong freedom, gets rid of it, eliminates it, and obliterates it.

Or they all give up the noble eightfold path.
Or they all give up the noble eightfold path. All, they all were fevereding on high grounds, all of them, using shakes, implements, conflict with each other, gives them all up.

(so) deeds the dustless, ~ like a blessing stain,
bitter feelings, liquor and worry.

That’s why Sāriputta senior.
That’s why the senior monk Sāriputta repeated all that.

Who has undertaken the training rules,
Who has undertaken the training rules

unified, alert, and mindful,

bit by bit, moment by moment,

like a smith smelting silver.”

It is at ease that
for Victor’s mind is comfortable.

the Fortunate One has attained Emancipation.
That Buddha is complete,

When he gets a seat, he uses it,
One should get a bedroom, and he finds (it).

according to the arrival of Awakening:
in accordance with the Teaching, and in accordance with the Teaching,

as I know it I will declare it to you:

while eating is truly disgusting.
For one in disgust of waves, that is to say,

When rebirth is disgusted,
when disgusted, they’re disgusted with rebirth ...

sickness ...

Death with death ...
by death ...

lamentation ...

suffering ...

sadness,
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress ...

With distress ...
Without anguish ...

When someone has come to be horrified, repelled, and disgusted with view,
When someone in a misconception is distressed, repelled, and disgusted by view,

dispelled by lust,
When you’re involved in disgust of sin,

I will speak comparing meaning with me,
I will speak comparing that to

What is living comfortably?
What is meant?

Right mindfulness ...
Right mindfulness, immersion, and the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They fulfill the practice that leads to extinguishment.

This is the comfortable:
This is the comfortable way:

It is at ease that
for Victor’s mind is comfortable.

said the Buddha.
And it is possible that the Buddha says.

that Elder Nālaka must stop
is the Elder’s nose.

from criticism to criticism.
like the Blessed One’s criticism.

But even more lustful, Blessed One,
But the Buddha has got over

said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

and the Fortunate One,
Which is cracking.

The Buddha said,

said,
said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

the Fortunate One, Bhaggava, the Fortunate One,
Analyzing of the teaching, he entered into the Fortunate One.

For the Fortunate One is not worthy of
He teaches the future,

One developed in physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.
One who has developed their physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.

The Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.
And the Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

The Buddha receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
The Buddha received robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

And he discarded of the meaning, the teaching, the Saṅgha, and the ethics, the mind, and wisdom.
And for the sake of the teaching, or for the benefit of the higher mind, the Blessed One in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

Vāseṭṭhas, the Buddha has become clear with the four absorptions, namely, and the four absorptions have attained.
Whether the Fortunate One has the four absorptions, the four immaterial states become clear with the surface of the four absorptions,

The Buddha taught him stages of the eight liberations,
The Buddha has taught the eight opportunities for constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.

The Buddha has ten perceptions, ten perceptions, twenty perceptions, ten perceptions, foulness, and mindfulness of breathing.
The Buddha has ten perceptions, ten perceptions, foulness, and mindfulness of breathing, in regard to the ten perceptions of foulness, and mindfulness of breathing.

The Buddha has the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
The Buddha has instructed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the four discovers, the Buddhas, the very well-known know,
The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the analytical knowledges, the four kinds of direct knowledge.

That Buddha wasn’t done by his mother, father, brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by ascetics and brahmins, or by the deities.
‘The Buddha has done a name, a mother, a father, a brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by the deities, or by ascetics and brahmins.

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of knowledge, and that is, the Buddhas to say, the omniscience, and the Blessed One.
Buddhas, the liberations, and the opposites of all kinds, and the knowledge of truth of the Buddhas is the truth of opposite sex.

the Fortunate One has attained Emancipation.
That Buddha is complete,

When he lies down, he knows the rest of his bed,
if he cultivates a bedroom, he is unsure about it;

wherever he sits down, sits down,
what the seat is said to be prepared,

a mattress, a mat underlay, a bedspread, a straw mat, a hide, a sitting mat, a sheet, a hide.
a mattress, a bed, a mattress, a straw mat, a hide, a foot-washing water, and a carpet.

the dwelling is called the “announcing”.
the dwelling is called a dwelling, a stilt house, and a cave.

lies there with a sacrificial post, using the sound of others. They’re drunk away in the forest, the sound of fairs. ...
lying down while others with a drum. ...

dwells without concern for the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
secluded from the five strands, secluded from sense desires, he entered inside.

By using what is useful, he makes use of it in this way.
who frequents and uses what’s useful, and makes use of them thinking:

When he gets a seat, he uses it,
One should get a bedroom, and he finds (it).

in accord with the Teaching, and in accordance with the Teaching,
according to the factors of Awakening.

the wisdom faculty of wisdom is called the power of wisdom, the faculty of wisdom, and the power of wisdom.
the wisdom faculty ...

investigation of the (nature) of things factor of complete awakening, Right Vipassī Right view
investigation of (the nature of) things investigation (the nature of) things, Right Vipassī,

may the wish to learn that, wanting to realize the desire of awakening. Let them go to the truth of that they desire to see the truth.”
may the delight in awakening factors. She wants to complain: “May she want to, enlighten them, wanting to make a wish, wanting to be honored, terrified, repelled, and disgust on the truth.”

Awakening,
factors of awakening.

What are the things that have been discriminated?
What are the teachings grouped by nature?

Right mindfulness, situational awareness, and mindfulness.
Right mindfulness, lack of situational awareness, and mindfulness. They guard the sense doors and they don’t eat too much. They’re dedicated to wakefulness, they have mindfulness and situational awareness. They guard the sense doors and eat too much. They guard the sense doors and eat too much.

These are said to be the nature of Awakening.
These are said to be the teaching of the Awakening Ones.

Or alternatively, there are four kinds of discrimination:
Or alternatively, it is the preceding people:

These are called the things that are meant for awakening.
These are called the things that are discrimination:

according to the arrival of Awakening:
in accordance with the Teaching, and in accordance with the Teaching,

I declare it to you:
I will know it according to their own vows,

For the Awakening One, knowing the Teaching,
For the Buddha-to-bearing the Dhamma

I will teach them, I will declare, I will declare, I will set forth, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will make plain, I will manifest.
I will teach you, I will declare, I will teach, I will declare, I will reveal, I will analyze, I will reveal, I will make plain, I will manifest.

“But just as this generation understands the way to understand, so I won’t penetrate the ultimate goal or their own view, nor does I make a complete end of suffering.”
They don’t understand how to understand how to understand how to make a statement in detail, they don’t go by oral transmission about this, and they don’t go by relying on logic or the ultimate goal.

as I know it I will declare it to you:

The Buddha replied,

“Sometimes in disgust of sin, that is,
“It is when you’re comfortable that

the Fortunate One has attained Emancipation.
That Buddha is complete,

When he gets a seat, he uses it,
One should get a bedroom, and he finds (it).

according to the arrival of Awakening:
in accordance with the Teaching, and in accordance with the Teaching,

as I know it I will declare it to you!”
as I know it I will declare it to you.”

those five dangers should not be feared,
the wise one should not fear the five fears.

mindfully, with limited speech,
A mendicant is living in a limit on chair.

always mothsquitoes, wind, and sun,
who take care of the battle

it’s always four mentions
it’s always good to give birth

those five dangers should not be feared,
the wise one should not fear the five fears.

The Wise One wise Wise One possessed, wise, learned, intelligent, fully enlightened,
The wise one is wise, learned, wise, wise, and intelligent, endowed with (the nature of) knowledge, the intelligent one who is wise, endowed with perfect understanding,

He wouldn’t have five dangers and threats, or has given up the five fears. And he couldn’t live fearless, scared, sustained, and neglected.
He’d not fortunate, nor are they persuaded, oppressed, or neglected by the praise. He’d fear and dread, and dreadful, lazy, unwelcoming, fear and dread.

those five dangers should not be feared,
the wise one should not fear the five fears.

A monk remembers the number of days.

A mendicant trainee, an ordinary person, or a trainee,
It is good when ordinary, ordinary, Vāsava, a mendicant, or a trainee.

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

developing principles, mindfulness, and equanimity.
Contemplation of principles, mindfulness, and equanimity.

they’re said to be mindful.
is said to be mindful.

Four or eight important principles:
Four orairs:

Ethics that are ethical, restrained in the sense restraint of the faculties, and eating too much.
Ethics are the limit of food, drink, clothes, and vehicles; the limit of food, the wavers and course of times;

What is virtue that has a limit?
What is the limit on virtue?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

Understanding thus, “Laying because of eating,” he creates no danger of ethical conduct.
Using that, they review the limited precepts of ethics, the limited conduct, the limit of ethical conduct, the melody, and the unconquered.

This is the limit on ethics.
This is the limit on virtue.

What is the end of the faculties?
What is the limit of sense restraint?

When a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If he makes an effort ...
but continue to make an effort ...

They don’t practice restraint of the eye faculty.
restraint of the eye faculty.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...

When they smell an odor with their nose ...

Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with their tongue ...

Feeling a touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

Knowing a thought with their mind, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If the faculty of mind were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, they practice restraint, protecting the faculty of mind, and achieving its restraint.
If the faculty of mind were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, he practices restraint, protecting the faculty of mind, and achieving restraint over it.

Reflecting on the Eastern Monastery, thecoming of the faculties, the life faculty, and the eighth day.
Reflecting on the pair of reviewing the faculties of the faculties, they don’t break into the honey-faculty, and don’t break into the limits.

This is the limit of sense restraint.
This is the limit on faculty.

What is the limit in moderation?
What is the limit in food?

Take a mendicant who, reflecting properly, doesn’t for fun, indulgence, adornment, or decoration, but only to sustain this body, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual practice.
Take a mendicant who, reflecting properly, doesn’t for function, or eradication, but only to sustain this body, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual practice. In this way, they don’t continue to end the spiritual life.

In this way, I shall put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and I will live blamelessly and at ease.’

Remembering the flesh of the end of a half-month, they review this:
Recollecting the end of the opposite child, they review the dangers that were meant:

This is the limit in moderation.
This is the limit in food, eating in moderation,

What is the limit of wakefulness?
What is the limit of winning?

It’s when a mendicant practices walking and sitting meditation by day, purifying their mind from obstacles. In the evening, they continue to practice walking and sitting meditation. In the middle of the night, they lie down in the lion’s posture—on the right side, placing one foot on top of the other—mindful and aware, and focused on the time of getting up. In the last part of the night, they get up and continue to practice walking and sitting meditation, purifying their mind from obstacles.

As he reviews each of the time in charge, he nourishes the ambrosia of Bhaddā Kāpilānī, and Mahī—
As he reviews the limitless meditations by reviewing Bhaddā Kāpilānī, he demolishes the central Ganges river.

This is the limit of wakefulness.
This is the limit of winning.

mindfully, with limited speech,
A mendicant is living in a limit on chair.

who always moves away what was flies,
who sleeps badly, taking care of the sun,

These are called the carpets.
These are called the spears.

All the gods are called “burning”.
all creatures of the Surrounded down, are all the same.

All the dispensations are also called “burning”.
All the dispensations are called the belitters.

Having arisen the ascetic, they eaten the food,
he ate them and dropped the ascetic.

Similarly, they are all called “flies”.
These are all called the abode of places.

They are called “teady”.
Living in transgression:

always mothsquitoes, wind, and sun,
who take care of the battle

men to human beings:
mentioned from human beings:

they are called ‘Gandit’ because they’ve done against human beings or not.
a human being is what is meant. They’ve not thieves or robbed or not.

If they were to ask a question, they would get frustrated, striking them, and trouble me, which would be troubled.
If they were to ask a question, they would be troubled, and because I’d get frustrated,

There’s nothing wrong with any human being:
anyone who lives off a human being,

a human being,

The four hands which were brought to an island, the head and the leopards, the hand of his feet, Kosiya,
The elephant’s head was like a lion in a leopard; the elephants took the hand of a leopard.

If they were to execute, ward off, and hatchet, would get frustrated.
would get filthy,

Whatever perils are warding off at the four directions there is,
anything at all that’s destroys the four perils.

it’s always four mentions
it’s always good to give birth

The Buddha replied,

“The Wise One should not fear (him), nor should he fear (him)?
“The Wise One should not fear the five dangers,

mindfully, with limited speech,
A mendicant is living in a limit on chair.

always mothsquitoes, wind, and sun,
who take care of the battle

give a human gift to divine maidens.”
give a human gift to a human being.”

Devoted to the other people,
And one who does not guard the Dhamma,

seeing the many people.
seeing them the many people.

Then they would be born into the next life.
Then attaining the next life.

to profitable deeds,
Remember the skillful,

(Other) beings who are principles, but will not be mastered by them.
And having seen the Dhamma of the other, one who does not shake off a lot,

These are called the seven principles who have confidence in the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha,
Seven principles who are principled and familiar with the Buddha, the Dhamma, and the Sangha,

If they were to ask a question, they would get frustrated, striking them, and trouble me, which would be troubled.
If they were to ask a question, they would be troubled, and because I’d get frustrated,

They wouldn’t see even transmigration or shake or tremble or get rid of greed or foulness. They wouldn’t be afraid of that sharken and negligent. They’d fear and dread, and live there.
Those lacking soaked they don’t see anyone, nor are they able to get rid of the swamped. They’d not shake or tremble or get rid of their neighborhood of fear and dread. They’d be afraid of that.

Having seen the truths of other beings, the wise ones might not recognize
And having seen the Dhamma of the other, one who does not scare another,

Then they might lead to the next life, in this way.
Then he drew nearly to the next world, which leads to distinction.

Then they should be running out of greed for future lives, thinking:
Then there is an production that should be given up when it comes to the next life.

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

of an offense entailing suspension, and concealed for a half-month. ...
concealed for the offenses and concealed for the previous offense ...

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

They practice the way that’s good, meaningful, and well propounded. They falter in line with the teaching. And they practice the way that leads to peace.
‘... the way of practice.’ ... they don’t comprehend theoretically.

looking for an end of suffering. And I must look for someone who is seeking for extinguishment, which be looked after, and be swallowed by the noble eightfold path.
extinguishment, the noble eightfold path should be looked for an opening. Extinguishment should be looked forward to running back by force. And he should run out about this.

Then they will continue to be full of all skillful things.
Then he might be able to fulfill the skillful.

The Buddha replied,

“Those who are attached to the ultimate goal,
“Having been reborn in a peaceful state,

seeing the many people.
seeing them the many people.

Then they would be born into the next life.
Then attaining the next life.

because of undertaking skillful deeds.”

affected by a wild colt and feeding on,
affected by jackals,

can endure cold, he may endure the touch of flies,
you’d endure cold, but heep.

touched by the closer.
there is a big deed without running.

making energy effort,
and energy.

and touched by jealousy and stuck-up,
affected by vanquishment, affected by grief,

what is meant is that shelter crossed over, or is called completed.
what is meant is that shelter moistened or defecating.

possessed by a disease called man, possessed by touch.
touched by the touch of a disease, possessed by a task,

possessed by the eye.
The covered with the eye disease became frightened.

There’s a more range,
streams of stream,

Smells through the nose,
The nose, smells, and nose—

tongue, body, and mind,
tongue, body, and mind.

body contact ...
because of body, speech, or mind,

touched by flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.

milk-rice is what is meant.
port of milk-rice is what is meant.

Whoever was heedless, endowed with these things:
The one who is stretched on the ground is covered with loving.

affected by a wild colt and feeding on,
affected by jackals,

He consents to the cold and the heat:
Straping the cold:

they are cold on heat.
there are two kinds of cold:

if a messenger is to be given by cold or heat externally,
if he is not able to overcome externally, or with cold or he is change in externally,

hot or in the heat,
There are two kinds of hot water:

it is disturbed if a turban for the element, or else else elsewhere it is warmed by warm water and motivated from warm thought,
it is the mere element’s disturbance through air element or through the mouth element,

When clinging to the cold:
full of cool water,

endures cold, heat, hunger, and thirst; the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles; rude and unwelcome criticism; and puts up with physical pain—sharp, severe, acute, unpleasant, disagreeable, and life-threatening.

can endure cold, he may endure the touch of flies,
you’d endure cold, but heep.

and so did he.
one is touched by them.

But they’re hunger and thirst, and they blurst from cold and heat.
They enjoyed things that are hurtful and pleasing.

the touched by them.
the touch of them.

Many-Causalized by many ways:
Many people, possessed of many ways:

touched by those.
touched by them.

As a consequence, they don’t build a place where there’s no opportunity for containing it.
As a consequence, they don’t do their opportunity to be done in a place where there is no place.”

He’s untrained,
without sorrow,

Then they don’t do bad things by way of body, speech, or mind.
Then they don’t give up bad conduct by way of body, speech, or mind, and they don’t get an opportunity to do so.

Who has not made amends:
Who doesn’t harmless:

touched by the closer.
there is a big deed without running.

Daughtering energy:
Makes energy:

Whatever energy is called “mindful”—the faculty of energy”—earth, invariably, energy, rapture, tranquility, immersion, and equanimity—they’re aroused by energy.
making energy by energy, if he exerts the recipient, energy, rapture, tranquility, immersion, and equanimity.

Daughtering energy:
Makes energy:

They would staunchly energy and strong.
embracing energy, making strong effort, and weak.

I should staunchly vigorous, not strong.
(But) energy I should stroke off arouse energy,

The Buddha replied,

“Through touched by jewels,
“For he who is touched by pleasure,

can endure cold, he may endure the touch of flies,
you’d endure cold, but heep.

touched by the closer.
there is a big deed without running.

exert energy ...
embracing energy!”

he should not steal, he should not speak falsely.
he should not speak a falsehood;

loving-kindness towards your contact,
loving-kindness arises in you.

when a mind is open and undistorted,
when a man know of the mind is stained,

The dark one produces a dark class,
(only) the dark he might dispel him.

Standing in others, he doesn’t speak falsely;
Shouldn’t a person, nor gets others to speak:

A mendicant should give up stealing. They don’t take only what’s given, and expect only what’s given. They keep themselves clean by not thieving.
It’s not when a mendicant gives up stealing. They take only what’s given, and expect only what’s given. They keep themselves clean by not thieving.

those living in the community by theft,
not by thieves.

They don’t lie down here, and now they speak the truth. They’re honest and trustworthy, and don’t trick the world with their words.
They don’t lie. They’ve given up lying. They speak the truth and stick to the truth. They’re honest and trustworthy, and don’t trick the world with their words.

he should not steal, he should not speak falsely.
he should not speak a falsehood;

Having loving-kindness towards contact,
loving contact through loving-kindness,

For treating kindness towards beings with kindness, compassion, gladness and compassion, kindness and compassion.
kindness and compassion for sentient beings: kindness and compassion, delighting in the welfare of loving-kindness, compassion, kindness, and equanimity.

Those who are satisfied by craving, are not given up by craving, by not given up,
Those who are satisfied with the self-control, are not given up by craving and those who are not given up.

what is the reason why they are called.

They burn and warn and blazing and praise.
They drive and flawlessly praise the supreme person.

what is meant is that they are called “areness”.
These are called the reasons to begin.

driven out of craving, they’ve given up the fear and terror.
Wealth enjoy the delights of craving, by which they’ve given up the fear of craving,

they are called ‘known’.
These are the reasons to learn.

They don’t burn the supreme awakening, and they don’t lie down.
They don’t lie down on the peak, nor do they throw themselves out.

they are called ‘aṅgīrasa’.
tirelessly, they are said to be far from here.

Having loving-kindness towards contact,
loving contact through loving-kindness,

They meditate spreading a heart full of love to one direction, and to the second, and to the third, and to the fourth. In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of love to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.
And as soon as they meditate spreading a heart full of love to one direction, and to the second, and to the third, and to the fourth. In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of love to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.

loving-kindness towards your contact,
loving-kindness arises in you.

When a mind is diversified, then she knows
When a man is devoted to wideity,

But when his locks fall down:

mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact.
mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact are given up.

They’re moved by bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and stirred with fear.
They’re abiding in bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and strayed with leaf-hut.

by way of body, speech, and mind. ...
by way of body, speech, and mind. ...”

Bad conduct ...
by way of body, speech, and mind. ...

full of greed, hate, and delusion ...
greed ...

hate ...

delusion ...

anger ...

hostility ...

flies ...
offensive,

contempt ...

jealous ...
jealousy ...

stinginess ...
stingy ...

your mother ...
a magician ...

deceived ...
genitals ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

conceit ...

disgrace ...
ties,

or even the deities ...
or even drunk ...

negligence ...

so that defilements are defiled ...
so that all defilements ...

For all kinds of conduct ...
entirely full of bad conduct ...

given up everyone,
‘Overcome by all herons,

contemplates ...
of all kinds,

entirely ...

All the unwholesome mind has been disturbed, well-formed, and bubbling it rubbed with a stick.
All the wholesome very skilful meditation subjects having been disturbed with razor-oms.

When a mind is diversified, then she knows
When a man is devoted to wideity,

Or he might understand if he knows that the mind was available.
Or they’d understand if they understand the minds of another clearly,

when a mind is open and undistorted,
when a man know of the mind is stained,

Those who dispel the darkness:
Compasses an abiding:

That dark one who is dark, he who is endowed with a darkness, not being bound by Māra.
That dark one who is dark, overcome by Māra, doesn’t enter into a chain of house.

for Māra’s army were to give up Māra’s snares, Māra’s domain, and Māra’s terrified. They might give up Māra’s bondservant.
for Māra’s bondservant, Māra, and the captivating Māra’s snares, and the murdered Māra’s snares, and the domain of Māra.

That’s how a dark one might run back.
That’s how the dark snare would remove the darkness.

Or alternatively, it would make an end of suffering, its origin, its cessation, and the practice that leads to its cessation.
Then that black deer would give up pain, harm, strive, and frail.

That’s how a dark one might run back.
That’s how the dark snare would remove the darkness.

The Buddha replied,

“Don’t speak falsely, nor should I speak falsely.
“He should not speak a sage, nor should he speak.

loving-kindness towards your contact,
loving-kindness arises in you.

when a mind is open and undistorted,
when a man know of the mind is stained,

they’d look after the dark.”
Compassionates, take no matter.”

When anger surges his mind on anger,
Who has overcome anger towards anger,

their roots going down (but) with the root itself).
The roots of their roots,

Or else, though it may be disliked or little.
Or alternatively, either a little or a little,

Surely the continued existence would be born again.
travel to be born again and again.

When anger surges his mind fails to come.
Who does not go to anger or decay,

anger is arrogant mind,
anger obstinately ...

Having untraught, a demon mind is upset,
Having thrown up the sword, the mind was upset,

It is someone who does not think it’s simply impossible for them to have any offense or committed while on account of her birth.
It is someone who does not have doubt or uncertainty about one or other of their births.

When anger surges his mind fails to come.
Who does not go to anger or decay,

When anger and hostility are undying, they’d give up anger, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it.
They’d give up anger and get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterate it.

Does he undergoes anger, not come again,
Who has overcome anger towards anger,

the roots, dig up the root.
The roots that originate.

What is the root of anger?

Ignorance is a root, improper attention, root, and transgressive. The root of arguments is a root.
Ignorance is its root, improper attention, and the root of an outcome root. Ignorance is the root of the lovely.

this is the root of anger.

What is its root?

Ignorance is a root, improper attention, root, and transgressive. The root of arguments is a root.
Ignorance is its root, improper attention, and the root of an outcome root. Ignorance is the root of the lovely.

This is the root of the stream.

the roots, dig up the root.
The roots that originate.

When anger and hostility they’ve cut off the roots, dig them up, and pull them out, and place them on the fierce, they’d give them up, and depart,
When anger’s irritable, they lift up the roots, pull them out, and place them on the fierce, and chop it out, having placed them, make an end of them, and meditate.

their roots going down (but) with the root itself).
The roots of their roots,

Or they might lose their way.
Or they could become disliked by no matter.

Then he tried to rise confidence in the open by the blazing lotus ponds such as:
Then he drops the phrases by striving the tips of the lotus ponds, full of phrases, and phrases.

Without asking:
Without first:

two loves:
the two fathers:

or (mental) processes
sentient beings, or choices

What seven?

It’s when your mothers are beneficial and relative of yours, desires, bondservants, workers, and staff. Or friends and colleagues, relatives or family members of this spiritual life to make.
It’s when your mother wants to help her, wanting to help keep the boys, wanting to help, whether his mother or father, brother, or sister.

these beings
these seven days after the beings

What are (volitional) processes?

pleasing sights ...
pleasing sights,

smells ...
smells,

tastes ...

tangibles,

these (mental) processes
These are the conditions for choices.

The two unsuitable way:
Or two unpleasants:

or (mental) processes
sentient beings, or choices

What seven?
What are the teachings grouped by seven?

It’s when someone wants to haven’t desires, and they want to take his life.
It’s when someone wants to harm you, and they want to take the life of a woman. They want to kill him and say:

These beings are unlike those
these sentient beings are still not reborn.

What are (volitional) processes?
What are (mental) processes that are unpleasant?

sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
pleasing sights,

tastes ...

tangibles,

these (mental) processes are unpleasant to conditions.
These (mental) processes are unliked by conditions,

and practices depending on free lying down:
Transferred to the definite of rains, one definitively, one that has no doubt

it is certainly not possible to lift my head from the round (of births and deaths) through a thousand rebirths,

Or they might lose their way.
Or they could become disliked by no matter.

Even when the father or what is pleasant, painful, or neutral—that be, all of them will continue to obtain that pleasure and pain.
When the person’s food is brought for them, will gain happiness and joy be truly happy.

Or they would be aware of it either.
Or else they might be satisfied and attached to it.

The Buddha replied,

“Who wouldn’t held his mind back?
“Who has given the conceit ‘I am’,

their roots going down (but) with the root itself).
The roots of their roots,

Or else, though it may be disliked or little.
Or alternatively, either a little or a little,

to be reborn in the next life.”
no delight in existence.”

With the forebearing of good friends,
With the wise, stilling of good friends,

after removing them what they have trained,
when your eyes are destroyed,

When sitting on the seat,
while delighting in heaven,

to lamentation in the fourth,
Reborn the four states

Rid of them gets fine.
one with wisdom before them.

That which is wisdom, knowing, investigation, deep investigation, investigation of principles, energy, and wisdom.
wisdom, which is wisdom, knowing, investigation, deep investigation, investigation of (the nature of) things,

Right view

He having a wise man in front of a mass of wisdom, some people, having prepared a maintain in front of much suffering, and one who has much understanding. He has much wisdom. He’s ghost realm and ghosts a great worms and so on. He has much happiness and gladness.
He rolls in front of a lion, he sets out on a branch, and leaves in front of much, and then in front of the fact that he has much wisdom. He has much wisdom, he has much wisdom. He has much understanding and has much wisdom.

Having wisdom this way, they’re wise.
same in front of them.

Then while walking, standing, sitting, or lying down he knows “I am walking”; standing, sitting, or lying down he knows “I am lying down”. And he knows that they know how his body is disrobed.
Then, when walking he knows “I am walking”; or, while standing he knows that he is sitting, he knows “I am sitting.” And when he knows that he has already been sitting, he knows that his body is lying down, he knows that. And he knows that his body is disposed.

Having wisdom this way, they’re wise.
same in front of them.

Or alternatively, when going out and coming back, when looking ahead and aside; when bending and extending the limbs; when bearing the outer robe, bowl and robes; when eating, drinking, chewing, and tasting; when urinating and defecating; when walking, standing, sitting, sleeping, waking, speaking, and keeping silent.
Or alternatively, when going out and coming back; when looking ahead and aside; when bending and extending the limbs; when bearing the outer robe, bowl and robes; when eating, drinking, chewing, and tasting; when urinating and defecating; when walking, standing, sitting, sleeping, waking, speaking, and keeping silent.

Having wisdom this way, they’re wise.
same in front of them.

When someone has good friendship, the recollection of the Buddha arises in him.
He enlightens the recollection of the Buddha, happiness arises in him.

He has a good voice:
Delights in drifting:

Recollection of the teaching is recollection of the Dhamma. Recollection of the recollection of the Sangha is recollection of virtue: Recollection of generosity, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of peace.
Recollection of the teaching is recollection of the Saṅgha; recollection of the deities is recollection of death; mindfulness occupied with the recollection of peace; mindfulness of death, happiness, tranquility, immersion, and recollection of peace.

They praise and do what they have.
They use good friends:

With the forebearing of good friends,
With the wise, stilling of good friends,

These things are distracted.
These are anxiety:

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

of an offense entailing suspension, and concealed for a half-month. ...
concealed for the offenses and concealed for the previous offense ...

These are called the texts on offenses of wrong conduct. ...
These are called the speces of an offense entailing expulsion. ...

These are called the concealed perils that were concealed ...
These are called the concealed specifically for a concealed place. ...

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

These things are distracted.
These are anxiety:

If they were to remove them,
They’d drag them all over and swallow them.

after removing them what they have trained,
when your eyes are destroyed,

While filthy drunk on the ground,
Together with blood, while lying on dry ground,

He delights in discontent, dissatisfaction, discontent, desires, aversion, and thorns.
He delights in discontent, desires, discontent, rejoicing, and thorning dissatisfaction,

Take the case of suitable lodgings, whether or not you get rid of remote lodgings, you’d run backbiting them.
Because when others get lodgings in the wilderness and the forest may achieve any kind of lodging. That fertile person would opposite the drill-sticks.

When sitting on the seat,
while delighting in heaven,

destroys the fourth thing and brings them to an end.
Reborn the four oceans

four things would be swallowed, rubbed, and swallowed by things:
If you were to sorrow and wail and lament, beating your breast and falling into confusion, saying,

to lamentation in the fourth,
Reborn the four states

The Buddha replied,

“Having risen early, joyful,
“Having wisdom in front, good practice,

after removing them what they have trained,
when your eyes are destroyed,

When sitting on the seat,
while delighting in heaven,

desiring the four things.”
destroy the four Dhammas.”

What can I not be?
what could I not be in the past?

Set up today, you can sleep badly!
It’s good to attack a deed,

lamenting these thoughts,
These thinking about it.

to live with the Vinaya on the Monastic Law,
having expert in the Monastic Law, such a trainee,

what can these people do to me?
what can be in the past?

So what can I eat?’
What can I eat? I’ll a staple or ache, a centipede, or a catch!

What’s the point of what,
what is the far shore?

Oh, when will I eat staple or non-staple food from a family, or princes—
Of when will I eat in a family of aristocrats or brahmins or householders?”

What can I not be?
what could I not be in the past?

that’s painful, sharp, severe, acute pains, acute grass, or a drill-fire.
It’s because of eating suffering that you’d straw off the grass or floor-covers or grass, sticks, or a straw mat, that were spread out, and burnt by wind.

Whether for one night I will sleep at ease, or sprout the stilt house. Indiangle, I’ll scatter the arm, thinking,
When I’ll sleep at ease, bed or benches in a chair or a bed or a stilt longhouse, or if I’ve left my home, I’ll shave in the home of the house, whether the bed or the house.’

Set up today, you can sleep badly!
It’s good to attack a deed,

lamenting and wailing,
These thinking about it.

They reflect on these two thoughts, to preoccupied with alms-food, thinking:
They think two about the alms-food and the two benefits of placing the mind, and keeping it connected.

Your laments beating; and if you don’t lament,
laments, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

lamenting these thoughts,
These thinking about it.

Come, who is an adept's training, and lives without circumstance.
to settle on the Vinaya.

the trainee is what is meant.
those in training, what is called the “a trainee”.

If he trains in:

the trainee,

What do they train?
And what does the trainer?

They train in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

‘What is the training in the higher ethics?’ ...

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

Perhaps these three trainings, knowing and seeing, he trains in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. He trains in having undertaken these three trainings, he trains in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.
if he trains in these three trainings, he trains in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. He trains in insight and is capable of developing the mind, he trains in good conduct, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. He associates with them, having given up those who know and see.

it’s said to be the reason why
what is meant is that she has said.

the trainee,

train in the training rules for the higher morality, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.
for the sake of repulsion and for the giving up of the training ...

were to train in these three trainings:
these three trainings ...

Do what he should be realized, and he should train in taking care of them. He should undertake and follow the training.
Doing what you should be realized, and avoid what you should train in. You should undertake and follow the training.

as well as on the Monastic Law.
like an adept.

For one who hasn’t committed any offense.
Whose unconscious:

How are one who lives for celibate?
How is one who lives spiritually?

It’s when someone has a certain family is impediment and miserable.
It may be that someone is offered with families, consulting with her hands,

monastery,
the monastery obstacles ...

It’s hiden by your robe given by massaging ...
Robe wearing the robe ...

almsfood ...

furniture ...
your furniture was ordered.

They have a requisite of medicine for support when sick.
if he has the requisite of medicine for the sick;

That’s how someone is celibate.
that’s how someone is celibate.

How are someone who lives without celibate?
How is someone who lives in speech?

It’s when a mendicant has no obstacles and groups.
It’s when a mendicant doesn’t have the family of such families, nor are they burdened by a community.

bathing,
the monastery,

It is noisy,
pursuing the robe,

almsfood ...

furniture was not covered with water,

They’re not ready for medicines and supplies for the sick.
if he is not obstructed with robes for the sick;

That’s how someone has not celibate.
That’s how someone acts.

“I went to the Kosalan country,
“I’ve gone to the Kosalan King Pasenadi,

and some are in the Vajjian lands.

Like deer that wander free of animals,
Like deer that wander free of deer—

and live without judgments.
and live without monks.

Learning good is good,
Learning is good, living well.

the homeless life is always good.

circumambulated the meaning,
Questions on the meaning,

this is the ascetic life for one who has nothing.

to live with the Vinaya on the Monastic Law,
having expert in the Monastic Law, such a trainee,

The Buddha replied,

“What was it, Unnamed?
“What can I become, lacking?

Set up today, you can sleep badly!
It’s good to attack a deed,

lamenting these thoughts,
These thinking about it.

Please put on the Monastic Law in the Monastic Law.”
having expert on the Monastic Law, some without being announced.”

Having gained faith and good,
When she had done this,

knowing what’s a moderation is beyond,
to yet heaps beyond the shame,

early wanders in the neighborhood of a village.
Having gone to the villages in the village.

so speak harshly,
The Vajjians don’t speak harshly.

Having gained faith and good,
When he has gained faith in the future,

(Perhaps) insistence, let alone those who are fish,
(They are) unmoving, like fish, meat,

The wore robes:
The robes were sharing out:

linen, cotton, silk, wool, sunn hemp, and hemp.

Having gained faith and good,
When he has gained faith in the future,

Approaching robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. It won’t be used for those who obtain robes, drink, clothes, and vehicles through the advantages, etc., and powder, and flattery, because of the Lord Gate, carrying away a bandits, and flavors of warped offence, and will not accept being prevented by gifts of giving.
I obtained a robe, and I do not receive alms from an alms-food, not by gain, even through the drums, on the ground, or by giving a gift. It doesn’t give a gift bent, and it cannot be destroyed by gifts, and didn’t give gifts because of giving food and drink, etc., ornaments, or because of giving and taking in gifts, and believing the fruits or ruin

Having gained faith and good,
When she had done this,

knowing moderations, they know the purpose of protection,
what is a stain, he knows satisfaction in this world.

Through difference in both places:
two classes of rebirth: knowing what’s shared by the King:

if he receives it from a service, or if he is obstructed;
if he receives it if he is obstructed;

How do you know moderation?
And how do you know moderation in accepting?

they receive alms-food by day, taking care of families, and accepting the bathing robes by day.
Sometimes they receive alms from families, firstly often. They receive alms-food in many ways, and they receive alms-food by day, taking many almsfood.

So they know what is suitable.
Thus he knows moderation in accepting.

How do they know what is used?
How do you know moderation in a house?

Reflecting properly, they make up cold and heat; warding off the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles; and for covering up the private parts.
Reflecting properly, they make up cold and heat; for warding off the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles; and for covering up the private parts.

Reflecting properly, they don’t indulge in negligence, nor for madness, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual practice. In this way, they continue to end the spiritual life, and to support spiritual life.
Reflecting properly, they don’t make use of alms-food, lodging, or medicine and supplies for the sick. They don’t lead the spiritual life for the complete ending of suffering.

In this way, I shall put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and I will live blamelessly and at ease.

Reflecting properly, they make use of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles. As far as the creeping animals and inspires for retreat.
Reflecting properly, they make use of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles. As far as they want, they use these things.

Reflecting properly, they make use of medicines and supplies for the sick, everything that has arisen, up to repulsion and harmfulness.
Reflecting properly, they make use of requisites for medicine for support when sick, without hurting them, hurting them, and hurting them.

So they know what is used by moderation.
This is how to digest wealth,

they’d know moderation:
you’ll know moderation:

With these two reasons he knows about them, but let them know them as an offer.
if he knows by means of these two reasons, he should understand,

they’d know moderation:
you’ll know moderation,

Here there are none of the Todeyya.
Here the monks Todeyya:

It’s when a mendicant is content with any kind of robe, and praises such contentment. They don’t try to get hold of a robe in an improper way.

He doesn’t get upset if he doesn’t get a robe. And if he gets a robe, he uses it untied, uninfatuated, unattached, seeing the drawback, and understanding the escape.
He doesn’t get upset if he doesn’t get a robe. And if he does get a robe, he uses it untied, uninfatuated, unattached, seeing the drawback, and understanding the escape.

And on account of that they don’t glorify themselves or put others down.
And on account of that robe they don’t glorify themselves or put others down.

Whoever is deft and tireless in that place:
A deft and tireless in that place

they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who is standing in the wilderness,
they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who stands in the noble tradition.

Furthermore, a mendicant is content with any kind of alms-food ...

And we neither glorify ourselves or put others down on account of our eating alms-food.
And from others, they don’t glorify themselves or put others down on account of their eating alms-food.

Whoever is deft and tireless in that place:
A deft and tireless in that place

they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who is standing in the wilderness,
they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who stands in the noble tradition.

Furthermore, a mendicant is content with any kind of lodgings ...

And on account of that they don’t glorify themselves or put others down.

Whoever is deft and tireless in that place:
A deft and tireless in that place

they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who is standing in the wilderness,
they’re called a mendicant who is the ancient, who stands in the noble tradition.

Furthermore, a mendicant is content with any kind of medicines and supplies for the sick ...

But they don’t glorify themselves or put others down on account of their patches.
And yet some from others who are sick don’t glorify themselves and put others down on account of their medicines.

Whoever is deft and tireless in that place:
A deft and tireless in that place

They’re called a mendicant who is the ancient noble ones, who stands on the best of the noble ones,
This is called a mendicant who is the ancient primordial noble tradition.

knowing what’s a moderation is beyond,
to yet heaps beyond the shame,

Being devoted to they go to the villages.
They’re dedicated to the neighborhood of a village.

They guard their robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

Because they are guarded.
That’s how, guarded, sense,

Or alternatively, they guard their sense doors,
Or alternatively, they guarded and restrained.

Because they are guarded.
That’s how, guarded, sense,

Wherever they go to the village, town, or city, and guarding responsibility.
When it comes to the village, he looks after the village, which is guarded and protected, guarded, protected, and restrained.

early wanders in the neighborhood of a village.
Having gone to the villages in the village.

harshly and nonsense.
The Vajjians don’t speak harshly.

I couldn’t get angry, stuck in an outcaste, hunger, and trouble me.
He’d give up discontent, harshness, and bathed, oppressed, attacked, harassed, and attacked. He doesn’t neglect arguing, quarreling, and fighting, wounding, or spitting on all sides. He’d gives these things.

so speak harshly,
The Vajjians don’t speak harshly.

The Buddha replied,

“When they’ve gained the forest,
“When they’ve gained the state of defeat,

knowing what’s a moderation is beyond,
to yet heaps beyond the shame,

early wanders in the neighborhood of a village.
Having gone to the villages in the village.

harshly and nonsense.”
The Vajjians didn’t speak harshly.”

But the eyes that are clear, and the foot-salve.
But the eyes are not held,

dedicated to the absorptions, wakeful.
devoted to the absorptions, wakeful.

equanimity and serene,
steadfastness and calm,

were afraid of wrongdoing and did not cut off.
the Lord of the World became anxious because of finishing.

But the eyes are not clear or plastered,
But the eyes are not held,

How does the eye of one who sees with vision?
What is the one with vision?

It’s when a mendicant has seen the eyes, heard, thought, “I will see to be seen, heard, or suspected.” They should dwell in the neighborhood of a village and the town for alms.
It’s when a monk has the eyes, he knows a village to go for refuge to the Buddha, the Teaching, and the Sangha. He has to go to a town or a city in the country. And he is walking in the neighborhood of a village and the town.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

Then, while walking in an inhabited area, looking at an elephant, not looking ahead, looking around the elephant, not looking back, and looking ahead. He looking around the elephant, looking down and looking down, looking down and stars in front of him, looking down and stars, thinking,
Then, having entered an inhabited area, he looked around the elephant, without looking at the harem, looking around the elephant, not looking at the horse, who looking around the chariot, looking at the open with air, looking up, looking at the harem, looking up, looking at the harem, looking down, looking down, looking down, looking down, and looking down, while looking around the elephants in front of me,

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.
When a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.

Since the faculty of sight is left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion become overwhelming. They don’t practice restraint, they don’t protect the faculty of sight, and they don’t achieve its restraint.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

“Those dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.
“I dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, rams, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

How do the eye not become deceivers?
How does the eye not see clearly?

It’s when a mendicant has the eyesight, he should possesse to the eye, see, hearing, standing, sitting, or lying down in the neighborhood of a village and a town.
It’s when a monk has the eyes, he’s skilled in the monastery, leaves in the monastery, and goes to wander for alms to the monastery. He’s committed to a village with his eyes.

That’s how there is no eyes.
That too is how there is no eye

Or alternatively, while walking in an inhabited area does not look after an elephant, he does not look after an elephant ...
Or they’re walking in inhabited areas, not restrained in an inhabited area with elephant, not looking at an elephant enclosing the elephant ...

he goes without quarters.
he goes without an eastern quarter.

That’s how there is no eyes.
That too is how there is no eye

When a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

That’s how there is no eyes.
That too is how there is no eye

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing without seeing ...
There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith ...

They refrain from such shows.
refrains from such shows.

But this is how the eye doesn’t exist.
But this is how the eye doesn’t come too—

Okkāka,
Overcome by the eye of the flesh,

But a foot-scraper doesn’t never fail.
But there is no foot-scraper,

How is a foot-stool?
How is there a foot-stool?

It’s when someone has a foot-stool ...
It’s when a mendicant has the feet in the monastery. ...

They like Dīghārika, living in a long way,
he is guarded in long-standing for forms.

That’s how there is a foot-spoken.
That’s how there is a step.

Or they are no longer belonging to the Sangha.
Or a mendicant doesn’t have the same footprints of the Saṅgha with the foot-stool, the foot-scraper, or the rest.

dwelling ...
dwellings ...

They talk about continuity regarding existence.
He talks about profit and talk about existence.

That’s how there is a foot-spoken.
That’s how there is a step.

But a foot-scraper doesn’t never fail.
But there is no foot-scraper,

So let them give up these things.
‘May I give up sharing the foot, unclean pollutants, slopes, and inclines to retreat.’ So let them fulfill their mind, be committed to inner serenity of the heart, not neglect absorption, be committed to internal serenity of heart, and frequenting rejoicing ...

But the eyes that are clear, and the foot-salve.
But the eyes are not held,

dedicated to absorption wakefulness.
possessing the absorptions, wakeful.

(They are) devoted to the two jhānas.
Perceiving the absorptions because of two kinds of happiness:

to the first jhāna, or to enjoy them.
if he has not arisen, he is committed to the first absorption, be committed to the third absorption,

...
or, when there is no second absorption ...

... the third absorption,” ...

that gives rise to the fourth jhāna is devoted to him.
he is committed to the fourth absorption, devoted to the fourth absorption, is committed to the joyful,

That’s how they are committed to absorption.
like this, because they are committed to the absorptions.

Or they cultivate, develop, and make much of it.

They enter and remain in the second absorption ...
or they’re given the second absorption ...

... the third absorption,” ...
the third absorption ...

he cultivates the fourth absorption, develops and cultivates mindfulness of breathing.
They cultivate the fourth absorption, develop and make much of it.

That’s how they are committed to absorption.
like this, because they are committed to the absorptions.

In the evening and night a mendicant practices walking and sitting meditation. In the evening, they continue to practice walking and sitting meditation. In the middle of the night, they lie down in the lion’s posture—on the right side, placing one foot on top of the other—mindful and aware, and focused on the time of getting up. In the last part of the night, they get up and continue to practice walking and sitting meditation.
In the evening, a mendicant practices walking and sitting meditation by day, purifying their mind from obstacles. In the evening, they continue to practice walking and sitting meditation. In the middle of the night, they lie down in the lion’s posture—on the right side, placing one foot on top of the other—mindful and aware, and focused on the time of getting up. In the last part of the night, they get up and continue to practice walking and sitting meditation, purifying their mind from obstacles.

dedicated to the absorptions, wakeful.
devoted to the absorptions, wakeful.

steadfast just equanimity, they become immersed in samādhi.
his equanimity becomes concentrated,

Equanimity of equanimity: equanimity based on the fourth jhāna, looking at equanimity at the mental formations; consciousness is equanimity based on unity.
Equanimity is the fourth jhāna of the equanimity consisting in neutrality towards the mental formation; and is equanimity of the mind-made body;

It is the power of the mind that is concentrated, the mind becomes stuck in, and the immersion that remains undisturbed.
the mind becomes immersed in samādhi, and the power of immersion is steadiness is not discomfort, immersion, and equanimity.

steadfast just equanimity, they become immersed in samādhi.
his equanimity becomes concentrated,

In the fourth absorption there is one kinds of distraction indecision.
In the fourth absorption there is one-distraction in mind.

equanimity and serene,
steadfastness and calm,

were afraid of wrongdoing and did not cut off.
the Lord of the World became anxious because of finishing.

Nine thoughts.
Nine thinking, “Among the thought of thought,”

Sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts. And sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts; and they’re committed to getting rid of thoughts.
Sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts; and sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts; and they are committed to harmlessness due to the ending of sensual desires.

These are called the nine thoughts.

sensual, malicious, and cruel thoughts.

Or alternatively, what is the defilement of thoughts of ignorance and improper attention, then it is the constant lack of conscience and prudence.
And then, although thoughts of loving thoughts, ignorance is that improper attention, following a wrong path, ignorance is specifically focused on the wrong time.

Being afraid of wrongdoing, they do not ejection for not recognizing an offense. They are afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the carpents; and being afraid of wrongdoing, the Vajjians being distinguished; and the things being afraid of wrongdoing and fond of the training; these things aren’t suitable.
Being afraid of wrongdoing, they do not use stabilize their hands and feet, and because of being afraid of wrongdoing, they did not avoid stuffing one another with both sides.

When talking about such anxiety, he discontent with the mind,
Nevertheless, his remorse is anxious, and his mind is distracted.

This is called being anxious.
This is called remorse.

Rather, you give rise to two ends, thinking:
However, when he is remorseful, his mind becomes anxious, and his mind is distracted.

Because they’ve done what was done,
legal procedures done by an incomplete assembly,

And how does one who is anxious and remorseful give rise to anxiety?
And how is remorseful and mental distraction due to the mind?

“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind” they feel remorse.
“I haven’t done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind, and remorse because of this remorse and regret.”

“I do bad things by way of speech ...
“I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind ...

‘I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.’ ...
I’ve done bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. ...

‘I’ve done killing living creatures, stealing, and committing sexual misconduct; I’ve given up killing living creatures.’”
has been done to me. I don’t kill living creatures, steal, or commit sexual misconduct.”

“Stealing ...

sexual misconduct ...

a handful of lying ...
a monk speaks falsely ...

divisive speech ...

harsh speech ...

I talk nonsense. ...
what I talk nonsense ...

I’ve given up covetousness ...
... I’ve given up covetousness ...

I’ve made ill will ...

I’ve given up wrong view and discontent, and have wrong view.”
I haven’t given up wrong view and get anxious that remorse and regret it.”

And when it has been done and is anxious, the mind becomes anxious because of distraction.
And when it has been done and anxiety, the mind becomes anxious because of that remorse and regret.

Or alternatively, when some are fulfilled, he gives rise to remorse in the mind-made mental remorse.
Or alternatively, when something is fulfilled, it doesn’t give rise to remorse in my mind.

“I’m practicing wrong.”
“I am a faculties of Venerables.”

that the one who knows the deathless.
that eats in the deathless ...

“They are committed to wakefulness.”
one who is committed to wakefulness ...

“No mindfulness and situational awareness” ...
“I have mindfulness and situational awareness.” ...

... “I have developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.” ...
... “I’ve developed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.” ...

... “I attained the four right efforts ...
... “I attained the four right efforts.” ...

... “I have developed the four bases of psychic power” ...
... “I’ve developed the four bases of psychic power ...” ...

... “I attained the five faculties,” ...
the five faculties ...

... “I’m powerful,” ...
the five powers ...

... “I’ve developed the seven awakening factors.” ...

“I’ve developed the noble eightfold path ...”
“I have developed the noble eightfold path” ...

saying that I haven’t completely understood suffering,
... “I haven’t completely understood suffering” ...

“‘I haven’t given up suffering’ ...
“I haven’t given up suffering.” ...

... “I’ve developed the noble eightfold path.” ...

When I ceases, I’m anxious, and remorseful.
“My cessation isn’t anxious,” there’s a regret regarding the mind,

were afraid of wrongdoing and did not cut off.
the Lord of the World became anxious because of finishing.

would cut off Takka and Sakyan daughter.
would cut off my joints, cut off the crack, and unfailed rice and porridge.

were afraid of wrongdoing and did not cut off.
the Lord of the World became anxious because of finishing.

The Buddha replied,

“So your eyes are not too close,
“Neither eyes, feet,

dedicated to the absorptions, wakeful.
devoted to the absorptions, wakeful.

equanimity and serene,
steadfastness and calm,

cutting off at the root of buttermilk.”
the nun who practiced it.”

with good words, his powder and mindfulness,
Mindful, with words

split into their spiritual companions,
splitting up in my spiritual companions.

If you don’t have a good thing
arousing a skillful,

If you don’t foster the Teaching,
You don’t foster harmony

Mindful, with words full of powder and mindfulness,
when powdered, he enjoys mindfulness,

Presenting: whether he has been accused or not, his preceptor or what a co-student, friends or colleagues.
He is accused, settle, a preceptor, or teacher. He will conflict with, helping, preserve, friends, or colleagues.

“This is what you’ve lost, reverend, that is yourcomparable, this is your ethical conduct.”
“This isn’t proper for you; this is your ethical conduct, unrealized, and unrealized.”

If he accepts, carries out, and agrees with the accusing, he would consent to:
and if he does so, he might be reprimanded, joyful, and lamenting, and turning back.

Suppose there was a woman or man who was young, youthful, and fond of adornments, and had bathed their head. After getting a garland of lotuses, jasmine, or liana flowers, they would take them in both hands and place them on the crown of the head.
Suppose a woman or man who was young, youthful, and fond of adornments, and had bathed their head. After getting a garland of lotuses, jasmine, or liana flowers, they would take them in both hands and place them on the crown of the head.

In the same way, when someone sets out, they may take pleasure in it, and would consent to.
In the same way, when someone is mindful, they might not approve, welcome, and keep clinging to them.

“Regard one who sees your faults

as a guide to a hidden treasure.

Stay close to one so wise and astute

Such a wise and virtuous
when you’re astute and strive,

Sticking close to such an impartial person,

things get better, not worse.”

“Advise and instruct;
Advise and instruct;

curb wickedness:

for you shall be loved by the good,

and disliked by the bad.”

Windness, holy, when his fellows were broken, he ran along, spittle and discarded.
when he was accused by the fellow celibates, his feeding ground, splitting on his spiritual companions.

As a joint legal procedures, a joint recitation, the same training.
Legal procedures, a joint recitation, the same training.

spit up and throws their spiritual companions.
springs up their spiritual companions in the spiritual life.

answered like this: ‘How can break up greed, hate, and delusion, or reproduce the five hindrances, hate, and delusion, or split openly?’
‘If their spiritual companions requisites were to break up greed, hate, and delusion, and became demolished. By these three kinds of worms would break apart.’

split into their spiritual companions,
splitting up in my spiritual companions.

If they don’t hold a skillful lady in the skillful,
If you don’t get too close to you,

Speaking a position that’s needed to be released at the right time, which is value, reasonable, successful, and beneficial.
Speaking a speech that’s connected with knowledge, it’s at the right time which is beneficial; that’s appropriate for them to be released at the right time, saying:

and reflecting well the skillful,
I am able to excel the skillful,

nor do they advert to change.
nor do they advert to it.

There are two kinds of prominent merchants:
merchants,

An ethical person and from time
Living in time, charming;

What is the time?

Speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical. And they wouldn’t speak only words when they feel inspired.
They’d not speak harshly. They won’t use speech that’s false, divisive, harsh, or nonsensical. And they’d feel lost when they die.

“Whatever goods have not even attained,
Whatever good things are not found

too late,
uses too much:

Like this, do they sleep well.
Like this, one sleeps in the world.

Kokālika, too.”
let alone the road?”

this is the time for death.

What is virtue?
What is accomplishment in ethics?

Speech that’s not arguing, you won’t speak divisively, harshly, or nonsensically.
Speech ...

These are the ethical conduct:
These are the ethical conduct.

If you don’t have a good thing
arousing a skillful,

Does not accept being liable to speak contrary to the Teaching:
Nor does he accept advice:

aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers were both gods and humans.
people, aristocrats, brahmins, merchants, and workers.

Take people who take pleasure in lying, and dissatisfied, deviousness, deceit, and blamelessness. They don’t give rise to failure in morality, or they don’t give rise to failure in conduct.
Or they don’t give rise to confidence in those places of loss, bad places, the desert of failure in morality, or they don’t give rise to failure in livelihood. If they don’t give rise to failure in ethics, or hopes the mind in any of these places.

If you don’t foster the Teaching,
You don’t foster harmony

The Buddha replied,

“Powder, with great strength,
“As a powder (the Buddha) was mindful,

split into their spiritual companions,
splitting up in my spiritual companions.

If you don’t have a good thing
arousing a skillful,

can’t intentional act contrary to the Teaching.”
doesn’t reveal my instructions to people.”

Then there’s five more dust in the world
Then there’s another five-hundred dust in the world

for those who train in according to the Teaching and the training,
for those who’ve trained the training,

In sights, sounds, and tastes, too.

Smells known by the smells,
you must smear the odor with greed,

Then there’s five kinds of dust in the world:
Then there’s another five kinds of dust in the world.

Then he tried to rise confidence in the open by the blazing lotus ponds such as:
Then he drops the phrases by striving the tips of the lotus ponds, full of phrases, and phrases.

Without asking:
Without first:

from the five cords, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches, and thoughts.
from the five ledgems, silver, gold, and money.

“But greed and hate are called Reṇu.
“But greed is called dust;

that is a designation for greed,
that is a term for greed and hate.

Having abandoned this dust they go forth,
A wise one should give up this dust,

There’s abstaining to the teaching of the Dispensation.
There’s no knowledge of the teaching of the Dispensation.

but hate is called ‘security’.
let alone one.

... “I attained ...
... “I’ll sleep ...”

There’s abstaining to the teaching of the Dispensation.
There’s no knowledge of the teaching of the Dispensation.

and delusion—which dirty do not take—
and delusion are said to be responsible.

... “I attained ...
... “I’ll sleep ...”

and have attained the instructions.”
free of doubt, he attained to the teaching.”

The world in the world of the gods, exploresed the human realm, and the world of the gods.
The world of the gods, human beings in the world of the world of the gods, in the world of the gods, and in the world of the gods.

Then there’s five more dust in the world
Then there’s another five-hundred dust in the world

for those who train mindfulness in the training,
For those who train mindfulness in the training,

There are sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
For those who hear sensual desire for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

mindfulness,

this is called mindfulness.
This is called mindfulness.

With this mindfulness he has attained, endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,
With this mindfulness he is endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,

This is called “mindful”.
This is called mindfulness.

Three trainings:

in higher ethics, higher mind, and higher wisdom.

‘What is the training in the higher ethics?’ ...

The training in the higher wisdom is training.
This is the training in the higher wisdom.

for those who train mindfulness in the training,
For those who train mindfulness in the training,

There are those who can train to give up greed for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. They should train in the texts on monastic training, and they should train in the training.
There are those who will give up sensual desire for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. They’re able to train in the training. In the training, they should train for these three kinds of greed for sights, repulsion, views, doubt, conceit, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.

Do what he should be realized, and he should train in taking care of them. He should undertake and follow the training.
Doing what you should be realized, and avoid what you should train in. You should undertake and follow the training.

for those who train in according to the Teaching and the training,
for those who’ve trained the training,

In sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.

Sights known by the sounds ... smells ... tastes ... touches ...
Sights known by the sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. They’d feed away wither, they’d be smeared with greed for sights, saying,

In sights, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
In sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

The Buddha replied,

“There are five worsts in the world,
“As abode of five kinds in the world

for those who train in according to the Teaching and the training,
for those who’ve trained the training,

In sights, sounds, and tastes, too.

Smells, sounds, and smells.”
Smells, greed for smells, and touches.”

these things are to be understood
you should give up desire for these things.

a mendicant well freed in mind,
a monastic with a mind well freed,

at times rightly investigating the Dhamma:

One day, after grief,
One day, the Sole Divine Seer,

said the Buddha,

these things:
these things are to be destroyed:

These sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts
sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts

It’s when desire for sensual pleasures, craving for sensual pleasures, thirst, passion, and craving for sensual pleasures.
Sensual desire, greed, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving for sensual pleasures.

The hindrances of sensual desire,

these things:
these things are to be destroyed:

Then they’d give up desire for things that are to be dispelled, eliminate them, and obliterate them,
yielding these things, they’d give up those things.

these things are to be understood
you should give up desire for these things.

a mendicant well freed in mind.
A mendicant is well freed in mind.

A monk, a trainee, or an ordinary person.
A monk, ordinary, having a trainee, or a monastic.

There is the mindfulness that is mindfulness, recollection, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom.
Mindfulness is the recollection of mindfulness, investigation of principles, energy, rapture, tranquility, immersion, and equanimity.

this is called mindfulness.
This is called mindfulness.

They’re endowed with this mindfulness meditation ...
With this mindfulness he is endowed with equanimity,

This is called “mindful”.
This is called mindfulness.

a mendicant well freed in mind.
A mendicant is well freed in mind.

For someone who has attained the first absorption, his mind is liberated, well freed.
For someone who has attained the first absorption, his mind is liberated from the first absorption,

For someone who has attained the second absorption, the placing of the mind and keeping it connected are freed.
For someone who has attained the second absorption, the mind is liberated from the second absorption,

For someone who has attained the third absorption, rapture is released, well freed.
For someone who has attained the third absorption and the mind is liberated from rapture,

For someone who has attained the fourth absorption, pleasure and pain, and their mind is freed.
For someone who has attained the fourth absorption, released from pleasure and pain,

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form, the perception of diversity, and the mind is freed from the ending of perceptions.
For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite space, the perception of form, and the perception of diversity, their mind is well freed through the ending of perceptions of impingement.

For someone who has attained the dimension of infinite consciousness, the perception of the dimension of infinite space,

For someone who has attained the dimension of nothingness, the perception of the dimension of infinite consciousness ...

For someone who has attained the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, the perception of the dimension of nothingness is well freed.

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, theories of a stream-enterer, my mind is freed from the defilements.
Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, and forms of precepts and observances, my mind is freed from the defilements that should be well freed from defilements.

S once-returners, grossness of sensual desire and repulsion, from the pollutant of the defilements.
the loving-kindness once-returners of sensual desire and greed for sense desires.

Without relishing the fetters of sensuality, desire for sensual pleasures, and repulsion in the hindrances of sensual desire, and their mind is freed from defilements.
Their mind is freed from the fetters of sensuality, desire for sensual pleasures, and greed for sensual pleasures. And then they’re well freed from that sense desire.

A mendicant whose mind is freed from greed for form, desire for rebirth in the formless realm, conceit, restlessness, and ignorance.
The defilement of sensual desire for rebirth in the formless realm of luminous form, conceit for rebirth in the realm of luminous form, and the conceit ‘I am’. Their mind is freed from all sensual desires, their defilements are well freed.

a mendicant well freed in mind,
a monastic with a mind well freed,

at times rightly investigating the Dhamma:

When the mind is restless, it is immersed in samādhi, gladness, and tranquillity.
When the mind is restless, it is immersed in samādhi, tranquilized, and concentrated mind,

“The mind isn’t eager
“As a pretty mind

is worthy of praise,
for what is to be done and not to others;

well-controlled,
Their mindfulness is established ...

whenever they practice like this,
when you’re immersed in samādhi,

he looks on at the right time,
and looks on at the right time.

Someone who has a bad destination.
and he who dies in his family.

When what is received?
At what time is the receiver?

when what is there to be found?
At what time is it an unjust?

Perhaps I’m approaching?
Now what is the time to get rid of?

What kind of time?
“What sort of person is the wrong time?

equanimity;
equanimity is the wrong time for the mind;

How do you give to such a one?
How do you give something to such a one?

get caught up in the mind,
gets dropped in the mind,

fickle in his hands,
his hair resentful,

guarded mind to blame him.
guarded the proper mind,

in future lives,
in the true teaching,

when a mind has become serene,

the accumulated flames of existence,
(only) the damage -

even the time,
is the time for the stream;

inside myself and out.
having your mind-made inside himself.

By these I’m
By these ninety things

when one is immersed in samādhi
when one is concentrated,

with immersion,
their mind is immersed in samādhi,

were to spit on equanimity in this way,
were to look at it in the midst of the heart.

so the wise and the time
the wise and virtuous

one who knows the right time,
one who knows the right time, and one who sees.

from time to time
from time to time someone from time to time

in the sign of the culmination.”
which ends in the signless.”

at times rightly investigating the Dhamma:

All conditions are impermanent.

if he avoids all conditions: “From suffering to rightly go forth”,
or rightly investigates all conditions.

that are not-self ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

rightly purged the Dhamma,
rightly investigating the Dhamma:

one day, the Fortunate One, has entered it,
One day, the Fortunate One, having destroyed the darkness, thus he is the Fortunate One.

one-defused mind, without immersion, with unified mind, attributes
one, with mind unified, without hindrances, joyful intent on immersion, and the power of immersion.

unified, and after walking.
When he had been one, he saw

It’s simply impossible that they would give up greed, hate, and delusion, the conceit ‘I am’, the basis of psychic power’, and the cutting off of ignorance.
* So they will give up greed, hate, and delusion, and Their view of the hundred and eighteen views.

from criticism to criticism.
like the Blessed One’s criticism.

And the Buddha spoke of the four kinds of foulness by illness: the Blessed One, the perfected one, the fully awakened Buddha, when he has developed mindfulness of breathing in the earth, embarrassed, or the three bamboo poles using the four absorptions, the Blessed One, the perfected ones abidings, the fully awakened Buddha. He teaches the absorptions, when he has reached the final stage of life, the Blessed One with the four absorptions, the without giving up of mindfulness of breathing, the ocean, any other words, and the Blessed One.
And the Buddha has abolished greed and hate, and delusion, and the Blessed One, whose mind is favourable to the development of mindfulness of breathing in the earth, whether he has analyzed the sign, the opposites of the four kinds of troubles, the Blessed One, the perfected ones, the fully awakened Buddha, accomplished in immersion, the knowledge and freedom; and the practice that leads to the ending of defilements.

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of knowledge, and that is, the Buddhas to say, the omniscience, and the Blessed One.
Buddhas, the liberations, and the opposites of all kinds, and the knowledge of truth of the Buddhas is the truth of opposite sex.

One day, the Fortunate One, has destroyed that Dispensation,
One day, the Fortunate One, having destroyed the darkness,

The Buddha replied,

“There is no desire for thoughts that are phenomena,
“Do you have any desires that are heedless:

a mendicant well freed in mind,
a monastic with a mind well freed,

at times rightly investigating the Dhamma:

One day, I shall dwell alone.”
One day, having become his.”

said the Buddha,

Sāriputta’s Explain
The Simile of the Mass of Sāriputta

Eight Discourses on the Sixteen Three Baskets
At the end of the sixteenth parts, etc.

The Great Reference is finished.

