Cūḷaniddesa

Pārāyanavaggagāthā

Pucchā

1. Ajitamāṇavapucchā

“What is the world enveloped?

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

Not by what transgressed with what?
What don’t want to harm?

You declare an abiding in Kimbila,
You call a worm to what.

What’s the great hermit?”
what’s the great hermit?”

“The world is enveloped by ignorance,

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Their mindfulness does not give up,
The host of gods would not give up,

I declare you swamping,
Hunger

Suffering is the greatest of suffering.”

“Streams are flowing everywhere,

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

what’s the reason why.
What is the reason why.

For the restraint of stream-entry,
That is the restraint of the ear,

Who have you loved ones?”
whose mind is full of light?”

“Whatever streams there are in the world

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Those who block the mindfulness.
and mindfulness its careful driver.

I say the restraint of stream-entry,
I declare the restraint of the ear;

but when they are loved by wisdom.”
for their wisdom is full of wisdom.”

“Knowledge and mindfulness,

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

name and form.

When I asked this, I return to my range.
When I’ve questioned this,

does such a thing?”
what is convenient is there.”

“This question that was asked,

they’ve not been blessed.
they’re not able to be one, I say.

Where name and form
And where name and form

cease with nothing left over;

with the cessation of consciousness,

that’s where this ceases.”

“Those who have appraised the teaching,

and the many kinds of trainees here—

expel the alert,
do my alert.

when questioned, please tell me their conduct.”
when questioned, dear Sir.”

“Painfully greed for sense pleasures,
“In regard to sense pleasures,

would be filled with awareness.

a wholesome thing,
wholesome things,

to give up desire for rebirth.
to give up sensual desire.

The first question was completed.
The first question was created.

2. Tissametteyyamāṇavapucchā

“Who’s content in the world?
“They’re happy in the world,

adding, “Venerable Tissa is better
‘The venerable Tissa is better

Whose meditation are stupid?
Whose strikes are destroyed?

Who is studied with knowledge?
Who is stubborn in both ways:

and is not stuck in the middle.

a great man,
He is a great man,

What is your seam?”
who has escaped the seamstress here?”

“Among greedy living the spiritual life,
“Among the spiritual life

The Buddha has good will,

rid of craving, always mindful,
Rid of craving, always mindful,

they’ve become quenched.
A mendicant comes to be quenched.

But in fact, there are higher.
But there are no motion

Understanding your park,
Understanding your wisdom,

and is not stuck in the middle.

He is a great man, I declare,

they’ve escaped the seamstress here.”
you have escaped the seam.

The second knowledge of the kind is finished.
Third: Tissa’s questions on the second day,

3. Puṇṇakamāṇavapucchā

“I’ve given up the root, hard to pass,
“Having seen the root of all that is unmoved,

said this to the venerable Puṇṇaka:
So much venerable Puṇṇa

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

On account of what did the seers and men,

nobles, and brahmins, here in the world
nobles, and brahmins, here in the world,

offer many sacrifices to the gods?
offered many sacrifices to the gods,

I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me.”

“Whoever of those seers and men
“Those who are born

said the Buddha to Puṇṇaka,

nobles, and brahmins, here in the world
nobles, and brahmins, here in the world,

offer many sacrifices to the gods?
offered many sacrifices to the gods,

being fulfilled, Puṇṇaka, repeated:
being full of value, having complete purity,

now old, they’re slacked.”
now old, they slacked.

“Whoever of those seers and men
“Those who are born

said this to the venerable Puṇṇaka:
So much venerable Puṇṇa

nobles, and brahmins, here in the world
nobles, and brahmins, here in the world,

offer many sacrifices to the gods?
offered many sacrifices to the gods,

Don’t the Blessed One in any sacrifice at all?
Can the Fortunate One, find such sacrifices?

has crossed over birth and old age, dear Sir?
has crushed out birth and old age, dear Sir,

I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me.”

“They are craft-free, they burn, yearn,
“They are the’s lion, they strike a fire and fire,

said the Buddha to Puṇṇaka,

They hunger for sense pleasures, because of gain

they engage in sacrifice, excited by the passion for existence.

They have not crossed over birth and old age, I say.”
they have not crossed over birth and old age, I say.”

“If those who were not crossed over
“If those who have not crossed over

said this to the venerable Puṇṇaka:
So much venerable Puṇṇa

birth and old age by their sacrifices, dear Sir,

then just who in the world of the Gods and men

has crossed over birth and old age, dear Sir?

I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me.”

“The world has the next world,
“The world’s the next world,

said the Buddha to Puṇṇaka,

free of pride about anything in the world,
He has no agitation in the world.

Peaceful, unclouded, untroubled, with no need for hope,

they’ve crossed over birth and old age, I declare.”

The third question of the full moon
The third asking of the Sakyans

4. Mettagūmāṇavapucchā

“I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me,

said venerable Mettagū,
said venerable Mettiya,

I think you have true understanding, and a developed self -

how have these countless kinds of suffering

arisen for whoever is in the world?”
Of those who know the world in the world,.”

“You asked me about the origin of suffering,

The Buddha has worry about
said the Buddha,

as I know it I will declare it to you:

Because of clinging to a basis

and the world of men who live in the world
Whatever in the world beyond,

When an ignorant person builds up attachments,
The foolish one, without wisdom, clings to a basis,

that idiot returns to suffering again and again.

So let one who understands not build up attachments:

seeing the birth and origin of suffering.”

“This is the question, not the unknown.
“This is what we have done, not what is unself.

Please tell us that question.
Please ask another question, Please tell this to me.

‘How do the wise ones cross over the flood,

of birth, old age, grief, and lamentation?’

Please explain this to me, O sage,

for this Teaching has been understood by you.”

“What can I teach you the Dhamma?
“What can I teach you the Dhamma for you?

The Buddha has worry about
said the Buddha,

in this very life.
in this very life, non-returner.

When you understand that the good for yourself
When a person understands the mindful and

burning up in the world.”
like the sunk in the world.”

“I greatly rejoice in that,

the great hermit,
the supreme Dhamma.

When you understand that the good for yourself
When a person understands the mindful and

burning up in the world.”
like the sunk in the world.”

“Whatever you know,

The Buddha has worry about
said the Buddha,

above, below, and across the middle,

those who have a household and arrangement,
(There are) not seen these rivers and homes,

and consciousness,

Living in this way, mindful, and heedful,

the monk who lives on after giving up loved things,

of birth, old age, grief, and lamentation?

grief, lamentation, and suffering right here.”

“I greatly rejoice in this, the Great Seer’s word,
“I greatly rejoice in that, the great hermit!

Gotama, well-controlled,
Gotamaks, well-free:

Surely the Fortunate One gave up suffering,

for this Teaching has been understood by you.

Now that suffering should be given up,
Now that suffering may (etc.)

whomever you would continually advise, O Sage,

therefore I revere you, I revere the future.
therefore having met the future, I revere you,

Hopefully the Buddha would continue me.”
May the Buddha please advise me

“You should know a brahmin high priest,
“That brāhmaṇa who has true understanding, a knowledge master,

who has nothing, and is not clinging to sense existence,

for he has surely crossed over the flood,

without hindrance or doubt, he has crossed beyond.

That man who here has true understanding,
That man who is wise, and has true understanding,

who has released the shackle of repeated existence,

he is craving-free, not troubled, not yearning -

they’ve crossed over birth and old age, I declare.”

The fourth (divine) Leader Mettagū).
Longing on the four sides

5. Dhotakamāṇavapucchā

“I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me,

adding,
Dispeller, venerable Dhotaka,

I long for the doubt, the great hermit,
I long for the sake of your doubt,

hearing your utterance I’ve heard,
Having heard your words, he reached maturity,

trained in extinguishment.”
trained in my own training.”

“Then you should make a wish,
“Then, giving a little,

said,
said the Buddha,

in this life they’re mindful,
Living in this life, alert and mindful,

henceforth, after hearing this utterance:
Having heard these words, catching the flood

trained in extinguishment.”
trained in my own training.”

“I see in the world of the gods and men,
“I see in the world with its gods and men,

a brahmin who moves about having nothing,

therefore I revere you, All-Seeing Visionary,

O Sakyan, please free me from my doubts.”

“I will not be able to free

anyone in the world who is having doubts,

but knowing (Nibbāna), the best thing,

in this way you can cross over the flood.”

° he told him what was happening,
“When pursued this, he is very compassionate,

the state of detachment that I should know,

like a golden statue,
like a goose, like a lovely pain.

may live peaceful and independent right here.”

“I shall go to the peace
“What have I found peace for you?

said,
said the Buddha,

in this very life.
in this very life, non-returner.

When you understand that the good for yourself
When a person understands the mindful and

burning up in the world.”
like the sunk in the world.”

“I greatly rejoice in that,

great hermit,
great seer.

When you understand that the good for yourself
When a person understands the mindful and

burning up in the world.”
like the sunk in the world.”

“Whatever you know,

said,
said the Buddha,

above, below, and across the middle,

Realised One has understood this is a chain in the world,
having understood this is a chain in the world,

you must not have craving for repeated existence.”

The fifth question of the smallest.
Five are the fifth questions.”

6. Upasīvamāṇavapucchā

“I was the one who is able, Sakyan,
“I am the great hermit, Sakka, the Lord of the World,

Venerable Upasīva,

I am not able to cross over the great flood.

Please tell me of a support, All-Seeing Visionary,

Whatever (thought) I could cross over the flood.”
what can I cross over the flood.”

“Looking to nothingness, being mindful,
“Why, when sickness and mindfulness,

He is
he is qualified.

depending on nothing, cross over the flood.

Having given up sense pleasures, abstaining from talk,

day and night you must look for the end of suffering.”

“He who is free from passion for sense pleasures
“He who is passionless in regard to all sense pleasures,

Venerable Upasīva,

who is depending on nothingness, having given up nothing,
who is depending on nothingness, having given up sense pleasures,

intent on the highest freedom which still has perception -

will he remain there without going away?”

“He who is free from passion for sense pleasures
“He who is passionless in regard to all sense pleasures,

He is
he is qualified.

who is depending on nothingness, having given up nothing,
who is depending on nothingness, having given up sense pleasures,

intent on the highest freedom which still has perception -

he will remain there without going away.”

“If he remains there without going away

for a great number of years, All-Seeing Visionary,

he was freed right there in the cool,
I’ll freed in the cold,

or will the consciousness of such a one fall away?”

“As a flame scratching for the wind,
“Just as a flame swept away by the wind,

He is
he is qualified.

goes to rest and can no longer be discerned,

just so the Sage free from the mental body

goes to rest and can no longer be discerned.”

“There is no safety for one who has no wisdom,
“There is no strike or filler,

or is healthy?
Or is it possible to gourd

Please explain this to me, O sage,

for this Teaching has been understood by you.”

“For those who’ve gone beyond, there is no measure
“There is no wavering in going,

He is
he is qualified.

by whom you have no fault,
by which one might have no fault,

when everything has been completely removed,

may all advice decorations!”
and all the way of speaking the path.”

The sixth section on boundaries.
At Upasīva, Sīvaṇavatī, and Sīvalī,

7. Nandamāṇavapucchā

“There are sages in the world,

venerable Nanda like this,
So venerable Nanda,

that is what people say - how is this so?

Do they say he is a sage because he has knowledge

Or because of the life he leads?”

“Not by view, tradition, or knowledge,

The Sages, who say, is skilled in Nanda,
covetousness speaks,

Without making use of medicine,
Without making use of, without destroying the flood,

not yearning, they are sages, I say.”

“Those ascetics and brahmins who

venerable Nanda like this,
venerable Nanda,

say that purity is through what is seen or heard,

say that purity is through virtue and practices,

say that purity is through countless (other) ways,
say that purity is through countless (others) ways,

Fortunate One, perhaps those living restrained in this way

birth and old age, dear Sir,
has crossed over birth and old age, dear Sir?

I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me.”

“Those ascetics and brahmins who

when he Nandā
And he said the Buddha Nandā,

say that purity is through what is seen or heard,

say that purity is through virtue and practices,

say that purity is through countless (other) ways,
say that purity is through countless (others) ways,

although they are living restrained in this way,

They have not crossed over birth and old age, I say.”
they have not crossed over birth and old age, I say.”

“Those ascetics and brahmins who

venerable Nanda like this,
venerable Nanda,

say that purity is through what is seen or heard,

say that purity is through virtue and practices,

say that purity is through countless (other) ways,
say that purity is through countless (others) ways,

if you say these sages have not crossed the flood,

then just who in the world of the Gods and men

has crossed over birth and old age, dear Sir?

I ask you, Fortunate One, please tell this to me.”

“I do not say that all ascetics and brahmins
“I do not say that all ascetics and brahmins,

when he Nandā
And he said the Buddha Nandā,

are enveloped in birth and old age:

whoever here has given up (reliance on) what is seen,

heard, or sensed, and virtue and practices,

and has also given up all the countless (other) ways,

who, by fully knowing craving, are pollutant-free -

They’re not swept away by you, I say.”
you don’t have the flood swells.”

“I greatly rejoice in this, the Great Seer’s word,
“I greatly rejoice in that, the great hermit!

Gotama, well-controlled,
Gotamaks, well-free:

whoever here has given up (reliance on) what is seen,

heard, or sensed, and virtue and practices,

and has also given up all the countless (other) ways,

who, by fully knowing craving, are pollutant-free -

I too say they have crossed over the flood.”
I have crossed the flood.”

The Seventh Question
Seven on Nandana’s Moon

8. Hemakamāṇavapucchā

“Those who explained (things) to me in the past,

said, “Not so, venerable.
ʻNo doubt is so, venerable.

the Gotama’s teaching.
Gotama’s intention.

thinking, “There will be so.”
there will be for one like that,

it is all of this.
it is all that was just hearing.

all that just increased my thoughts.

I didn’t delight there,
I didn’t delight there.

You must explain the Teaching to me,

the sage in regard to craving,
the sage gone to the end of craving,

When you understand that the good for yourself
When a person understands the mindful and

burning up in the world.”
like the sunk in the world.”

“In regard to this seen, heard, sensed, or cognized,

below in the lower worlds,
Embowls

removing desire and greed;
that gets rid of desire and greed.

extinguishment, the imperishable state.
the unsurpassed Dhamma.

Knowing this, those who are mindful,

extinguished in this very life.

those who are always peaceful,
you always live always peaceful.

they’ve crossed over clinging to the world.”
has crossed over clinging to the world.”

the eighth questions of the winter-Dhammers.
the eighth questions of the winter months.

9. Todeyyamāṇavapucchā

“In whom there is no sensual pleasures
“In whom sensual pleasures don’t stay in the realm,

venerable Todeyya
said venerable Todeyya,

craving is not found in them.
who has no craving for craving.

he who crossed beyond doubts,
he who has crossed beyond doubts,

What kind of liberation is there for him?”
What kind of liberation is it?”

“In whom there is no sensual pleasures
“In whom sensual pleasures don’t stay in the realm,

Toraṇavatthu:
Todeyya:

craving is not found in them.
who has no craving for craving.

he who crossed beyond doubts,
he who has crossed beyond doubts,

there is no liberation for him.”

“Is he without yearning, or of the stomach?
“She’s healedless, healso with no stomach.

Is he wise, or is he still acquiring wisdom?

I would know just what the sage is like, Sakyan:

all that you can depart.”
all that you come out from me.”

“Shouldn’t heat but has no sorrow,
“Shouldn’t heedlessness,

He is wise, he is not still acquiring wisdom.

Know that the Sage is just like this, Todeyya:

who has nothing, and is not clinging to sense existence.”
who has nothing, and is not clinging to sense pleasures?”

and was dwelling in Toraṇavatthu.
just as you’ll ask for new knowledge.

10. Kappamāṇavapucchā

“For those standing in the middle of a lake,

Leave, venerable.
Living on getting what is allowable.

Then the great hermit is born in the great flood,
and born of a great flood,

and caught up in old age.
to swep away old age and death?

to light a lamp, dear Sir.
you released the leopard.

Teach me the island,
you must explain to me

like that you won’t be at most.”
likewise the next world.”

“For those standing in the middle of a lake,

said the Buddha,
Sir, is allowable for us.”

Then the great hermit is born in the great flood,
and born of a great flood,

and caught up in old age.
to swep away old age and death?

I light a lamp for you.

one with nothing, never grasping:

this is the island with nothing beyond,
this is the island with its own insight,

this is extinguishment, I say.
I call this extinguishment

like an old-age,
the roll of old age.

Knowing this, those who are mindful,

extinguished in this very life.

don’t fall under Māra’s sway,

don’t come to Māra.”
don’t come to bathe.”

The ten months of Kappa
Questioning the ninety-nine years after asking questions, for ten months

11. Jatukaṇṇimāṇavapucchā

“Having heard of a hero who has no desire
“Having heard of a hero who has no desire for sense pleasures,

“May Venerable Jatukaṇṇī,
‘Give up the early!

I came to ask that desireless one who is beyond the flood,

please speak of the state of peace, together with the people.
please speak of the state of peace,

as it really is, Fortunate One, please tell me this.

the Fortunate One moves about having vanquished sense desires,

as the sun shines with fire,
as the sun (dwells) the earth with its shelter.

I have limited wisdom,
I’m Wisdom, great in wisdom,

Explain the Teaching so that I may know
explain the Teaching so that I may know

the complete giving up of birth and old age here.”

“In regard to sense pleasures,
“Among the greedy for sense pleasures,

May the Fortunate One shine
May the Buddha shine!

seeing safety in renunciation.

let alone the night
Unstored by the wind,

do not let inspire him.
do not let injure him.

You should sex with anyone,
When you should purify yourselves,

do not regret it afterwards (thinking):
do not later on.

if you take up nothing in the present
if you take up nothing in the present,

you will live at peace.

One who has no sense of ownership

Endued, brahmin,
For the quenched, brahmin,

and defilements are not found in them.
nor defilements are destroyed.

so mortals will defeat the deathless.”
don’t defeat the deathless.”

(Buddha) I ask Patissa for the purpose of crossing the eleventh day.
eleven months I ask (the eleven) a lotus place,

12. Bhadrāvudhamāṇavapucchā

“Only articulation of craving, unattached against the wind,
“This body isn’t fond of craving,

adding, “Venerable Bhadrāvudha,
longing, venerable Bhadrāvudha,

delightful, supreme,
for he does not abandon the flood,

the speculation-leaver, the intelligent one - (him) I beg,

Having heard it from here, he will not die,
will not be able to hear the other,

Various people have come from the countries,

and are waiting for your saying, O hero,

you must explain (the Teaching) properly to them,

for this Teaching has been understood by you.”

“You must remove all attachment to craving,
“You should remove all cravings, O Vinaya,

Bhadrāvudhara.
Bhadrāvudha, Blessed One,

above, below, and across the middle,

for they are desireless in the world,
for they are attached to the world.

For that person is unable to prepare them.
For that person who is unable to prepare a person.

Therefore knowing (this), the mindful monk should

a monastic in the world with its gods,
a monastic in the whole world with its gods,

seeing that with what is called attachment to clinging,
seeing that with what is called attachment to cling,

when the death of Death comes along the King of Death.”
when a person gives it up in the presence of death.”

Queen Bhadrāvudha’s questions, twelve (years)
Queen Bhadrāṇasī and Twelve (requent) in twelve (years)

13. Udayamāṇavapucchā

“One who meditates diligently,
“Vijaya, overcome by dispelling passions,

Venerable Udaya,
‘Look is impermanent!’

they’ve completed the task and are free of defilements.
his task completed, free of defilements.”

Gone beyond all things,

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

this, liberation,
this liberation is declared.

with the smashing of ignorance.”

Sensual desire,
Sensual desire for sensual pleasures,

said the Buddha,

sensual perceptions and aversion;

the dispelling of dullness,

and the cessation of remorse.

Pure equanimity and mindfulness,

precededed by investigation of principles—

this, I declare, is liberation by enlightenment,

with the smashing of ignorance.”

“What fetters the world?

What’s the point of yours?
what will you do?

With the giving up of what

extinguishment is what is meant.”

“The world is fettered by enjoyment,

Thought explores it.

With the giving up of craving

extinguishment is what is meant.”

“But how, is one who has no loved ones?
“How, how is it that a sentient being?

consciousness cease.
consciousness is ceased.

We’ve come to ask the Buddha;

let us hear what you have to say.”

“Dears and externally
“With externally

I don’t approve of feeling ...
(But) without understanding feeling,

That’s how to live mindfully
So to live mindfully

consciousness ceases.”
consciousness is cease.”

And I ask you their grandmother, like a lump of water,
Asking to the top of the stomach

14. Posālamāṇavapucchā

“A mendicant who reveals the past
“A mendicant who reveals the past,

Venerable Possessing the venerable,
Looking on, Venerable Phagguṇa

unstirred, undisturbed.
unstirred, their doubts cut off.

Gone beyond all things,

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

of the true intelligence,
in the true form of wisdom.

abandoning everything,
abandoning all defilements,

Those defilements that were found in me,
whether pleasure or pain

With nothing agree with them?
Without seeing, there is no calm,

I ask about (his) knowledge,
I ask about (his) knowledge, I am a personal knowledge of identity.

How is such a one better than what?”
How is it quietly completed?”

“All the stations of consciousness,

The Buddha said the best:
said the Buddha,

the Realized One,
the Realised One, after seeing the Realised One.

he knows where it is.
to live on sesame,

it’s freed,
freed in the ending of craving,

Knowing the origin of nothingness,

Such was relishing and fettered,
relishing is the fetter of delight;

A mendicant disciple of the Buddha,

then sees clearly.

this is real knowed for him.
this is real knowed for him:

the accomplished brahmin!”
you’re the accomplished brahmin.”

fourteen months and fourteen months
frowning up and inclusion,

15. Mogharājamāṇavapucchā

“I wasn’t able to ask
“I asked Sakka, I would ask

and Mogharāja.
Mogharāja, said venerable Mogharāja,

The seers of mine:
The Seer didn’t answer in the world,

After the third time the Queen Speaked.
he gives the third time the Queen.

declares I have heard:
so I have heard.

This world,
This world, the other world,

the Brahmā realm with its gods.
the Eternal Youth from the Brahmā realm.

you don’t understand
they don’t understand you.

of the renowned Gotama

so unattached, seeing the arrowless state,
so unsurpassed, so very facet,

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

How do you see the world?

then the King of Death won’t see you.”

“Learned in the world,
“Looking on the world as empty,

King Mogharāja, he’s mindful,
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

Having removed (wrong) view of self,

so it will cross over Death.
so death will cross over death.

who shows the world beyond,
looking around the world

king of Death won’t see you.”

At the end of delusion
asking questions

16. Piṅgiyamāṇavapucchā

“I am old, without strength, with poor complexion,
“I am old, without strength,

Piṅgiya,
said venerable Piṅgiya,

my eyes are unclear, and hearing is difficult -

may I indeed not perish a fool mid-way!

Explain the Teaching so that I may know
explain the Teaching so that I may know

the complete giving up of birth and old age here.”

“Having seen (people) being struck down amid forms,
“Having seen (people) being struck down

The Fortunate One has descended from Piṅgiyānī,
the Fortunate One, (saying):

Those who are heedless forms, ~ which are heedless,
people are delighted about sights,

therefore you, Piṅgiya, being heedful,

must give up form, and not come into existence again.”

“The four directions, the four directions,
“The four directions, the four intermediate directions,

above, below, and in all directions.

which haven’t seen, heard, thought,
which hasn’t been seen, heard, or sensed,

unsensed, or uncognized in the world!
unshakable, without understanding,

Explain the Teaching so that I may know
explain the Teaching so that I may know

the complete giving up of birth and old age here.”

“Seeing human beings, we have looked after men,
“Seeing human beings, like a man,

The Fortunate One has descended from Piṅgiyānī,
the Fortunate One, (saying):

are tormented, and overcome by old age -

therefore you, Piṅgiya, being heedful,

must give up craving and not come into existence again.”

The I ask you, Piṅgiya, who is constantly black.
I ask you like the origin of the Piṅgiyas,

