Cūḷaniddesa

Pārāyanavagganiddesa

Pucchāniddesa

1. Ajitamāṇavapucchāniddesa

What is the world enveloped?

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

Not by what transgressed with what?
What don’t want to harm?

You declare an abiding in Kimbila,
You call a worm to what?

What’s the great hermit
what’s the great hermit

What is the world produced?
What is the world enveloped?

The world in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the human world, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods.
The world of the gods, expanded in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods. This is the world of the gods.

is called the world.
This is called the world.

This world is restrained, wearing it, uncovered it, and concealed it.
This world is covered, surrounded by what is unconcealed, restrained, and concealed.

What is the world enveloped?

Venerable Ajita goes off course,
they wish to be reborn:

As inspires confidence: Pokkharasāti (?) continually full of phrases. It is phrases a phraself through a phrase of curry.
wishes: the explanation of the meaning—a lotus pond grantings is filled with phrases, Pondsing on foot, a lotus pond, and amount of phrases.

this is term of respect and reverence for the venerable.
this is term of respect for a person who is respected, reverence, honoured, and esteemed.

Ajita Saṅkha makes him how it is known as a ‘cramplished’. This is called “simply the phrasing ‘forms’.
Ajita name, the brahmin named Saṅkha, and the name of the designation of the horns.

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

What doesn’t want to lose the world? And does not shine and glow and radiate?
What doesn’t want to be reborn in the world? You don’t shine or glow or radiate. You don’t have a discluded wisdom.

Not by what transgressed with what?
What don’t want to harm?

Why is that?
yields a portion for one who is born in the world, and has arisen in the world.

The world was corrupted by what has been smeared with? What is the discoverer of the sword, the corruption, the suffering, and the analyzed and revealed.
The world was like Bhaddālaka, the chief of the world, hunger, thirsty, and parched. He revealed to the Buddha, laughing, and revealing the teaching, he revealed the teaching.

You declare an abiding in Kimbila,
You call a worm to what?

What’s the point of the world that’s a big fire, and the largest of the world
What’s the terrifyingly conqueror of the world? What’s the large, mass of water, and firebrands in

What’s the great hermit
what’s the great hermit

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin replied,

“What is the world enveloped?

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

Not by what transgressed with what?
What don’t want to harm?

You declare an abiding in Kimbila,
You call a worm to what?

What’s the great hermit?”

The world is hiden by ignorance,
The world is led on by ignorance,

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Their mindfulness does not give up,
The host of gods would not give up,

I declare you swiftly,
Hunger

Suffering is the greatest of suffering,

A world is produced by ignorance,

Without knowing about suffering, the origin of suffering, the cessation of suffering, and the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering. This underlying tendency to ignorance is called ignorance. Unknowing about the origin of suffering, the cessation of ignorance and the path, and the practice that leads to the cessation of ignorance. This is called ignorance.
Without directly knowing suffering, the origin of suffering, the cessation of suffering, and the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering. Namely knowing the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering. Namely ignorance is called ignorance. Choices are not knowing and not seeing. Choices are given up in ignorance and not comprehended the mind. Choices are given up, ignorance and ignorance.

Ignorance is ignorance.
With ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance ignorance,

The world in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the human world, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods.
The world of the gods, expanded in hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods. This is the world of the gods.

is called the world.
This is called the world.

This world, uncovered, restrained, and everything without ignorance.
This world is covered, restrained, welcome, and concealed.

The world is hiden by ignorance,
The world is led on by ignorance,

The Fortunate One, attacked him with the brahmin Pajirā
The Fortunate One, carried the brahmin Ajita by name,

from criticism to criticism.
like the Blessed One’s criticism.

But even more lustful, Blessed One,
But the Buddha has got over

said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

and the Fortunate One,
Which is cracking.

The Buddha said,

said,
said the Buddha,

said the Buddha,

The Fortunate One, Bhaggava, the Victor,
Analyzing of the teaching, he entered into the Fortunate One.

For the Fortunate One is not worthy of
He teaches the future,

One developed in physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.
One who has developed their physical endurance, ethics, mind, and wisdom.

The Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.
And the Buddha frequents remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

The Buddha receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
The Buddha received robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

And he discarded of the meaning, the teaching, the Saṅgha, and the ethics, the mind, and wisdom.
And for the sake of the teaching, or for the benefit of the higher mind, the Blessed One in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

Whether four absorptions, the Buddha has attained the four absorptions, the immeasurable attainments,
The Buddha has only reached the four absorptions, the Blessed One who has reached the final stage of life;

The Buddha taught him stages of the eight liberations.
The Buddha has allowed the eight liberations, the eight language of the liberations, progress, and attainments.

The Buddha has ten perceptions: ten perceptions, foulness, and mindfulness of breathing, when developed and practiced immersion due to mindfulness of breathing.
The Buddha has ten perceptions, the ten perceptions, the blessings, and the signs of mindfulness of breathing.

The Buddha has the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
The Buddha has instructed the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the four discovers, the Buddhas of the six direct knowledges, the Blessed Ones have attained (supernatural) vision,
The Buddhas of ten enlightenments, in accordance with the analytical knowledges, the four kinds of direct knowledge.

That Buddha wasn’t done by his mother, father, brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by ascetics and brahmins, or by the deities.
‘The Buddha has done a name, a mother, a father, a brother, or sister. It wasn’t done by friends and colleagues, by relatives and kin, by the deities, or by ascetics and brahmins.

It is the liberations that the Buddhas have laid down for the root of knowledge, and that is, the Buddhas to say, and final knowledge of all.
Buddhas, the liberations, and the opposites of all kinds, and the knowledge of truth of the Buddhas is the truth of opposite sex.

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

The astute would not give up heedlessness,
Because of this, they don’t give up.

The five kinds of stinginess is what is meant.
These are called the five kinds of stinginess.

Stinginess with dwellings, families, material possessions, praise, and the teachings.

Such is the fishing of stinginess, transmigration, decaying, and waist.
Such fishing dealings are indeed, waved, trickling down to the bodies,

This is called stinginess.
This is called accomplishment in view.

Stinginess with the aggregates, stinginess, arousing, and generosity.
However, the aggregates of stinginess, stinginess, the profoundation of the jealousy, and the stinginess of stinginess.

he should be asked,
you should say:

or by body, speech, or mind, or by body and speech, or by mind, and being unfamiliated in the five kinds of sensual stimulation, or maintaining stains in the five strands of sense pleasure. It is devoted to unguarded, development and endeavour.
Body conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and the five kinds of sensual stimulation have been described in the five strands of sense pleasure, without supporting the mind, firmly established in the five kinds of sensual stimulation. They haven’t neglected absorption, depressed, and without doubt.

alcoholic drinks that cause negligence.
The one who is heedless and negligently.

This is called negligence.
This is called the negligence.

They’re given up, and don’t want to be negligent. This world doesn’t fall apart, nor does the method or a fairy.
So long as they don’t want to be reborn, they don’t want to die, and fall into the sky. And they don’t want to die, they don’t resist on the mere path.

Their mindfulness does not give up,
The host of gods would not give up,

Hunger in successively: craving is called craving.
Hunger for attaining the victor, they say, is called craving.

That is, lust infecting sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
The craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are not hurtful. You’re not exempt from greed, hate, and delusion. You’re hurtful, liberated from craving for sights, and fragrances. You’re vanquished by craving, greed, craving for sights, and craving for sights. Your ignorance is fragrances, and craving for sensual pleasures.

This is called old age.
this is called the cowherd’s cream.

Taking the world, I say, ‘The world is produced by this severe, misery, and shakes. That’s how I explain them, reveal them, and laugh them.
Talking in the world, hunger, thirst, thelain of the world, the victory, the Jina, and the world of the gods, I say. I declare my enlightenment, the ugliness. I’m clear, I declare it to you: ‘I have clearly explained the sword of the Buddhas. I declare that I have clearly seen clearly.’

I declare to be swamping,
Hunger

and the great hermits make an end of suffering,
they make an end of suffering,

Rebirth is suffering; old age is suffering; illness is suffering; death is afflicted with state of loss, old age, and death; sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
Rebirth is suffering; old age is suffering; illness is death; sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress are all suffering; association with the disliked is the suffering of diseased; produced from the disease called abscess; an abscess, a dying, sickness, suffering, death, the diseased, abscess, fever, stomaches, and making an end of suffering. Colding the disease are suffering; misery; the pain, abscess, abs, tuberculosis, unpleasant, disliked, and the dy, the severe of sorrow, lamentation, pain, and distress.

With the ending of defilements, cessation is evident.
and its cessation is evident.

As a result of deeds, a result of past deeds, and a result of rebirth, old age, and death.
The results of deeds, created a vital condition for form, namely form.

this is called suffering.

It’s the suffering that leads to the cessation of suffering.
This is suffering, the danger of the world, the simile of the water, the fire in the air, and the upper story.

Suffering is the greatest of suffering,

The Buddha replied,

“The world is enveloped by ignorance,

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Their mindfulness does not give up,
The host of gods would not give up,

I declare to be swamping,
Hunger

Suffering is their greatest fear.”

The streams flow everywhere;

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

what’s the reason why.
What is the reason why.

For the restraint of stream-entry,
That is the restraint of the ear,

by what is held dear?
whose mind is full of light,

The streams flow everywhere;

They’re born in craving, corrupted by craving, and deceitful views.
they’re born in craving, corrupted by craving, and ignorance.

everywhere in all respects,
everywhere in all sense fields,

flowing together with gods and humans.
Some flowing along with cool water.

They flow into the eyes, when they flow into the sky,
Forms occur crumbling forms, flowing along,

They hear the ear ...

They hear the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...
They hear the tongue ...

touches known by the body ...

Remembering the teaching they flow to Mind,
Remembering the mind they keep running.

craving for sights occurs, flows down to the eyes,
Forms flowing along with craving for the eye, flows downwards and creepers,

When they hear a sound with ears ...
When they hear a sound, they keep flowing along with craving,

The nose ...
smells ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

touches ...
craving for touches ...

Remembering the teaching proceeds to the mind, saying:
mind, craving, and craving flows flowing along,

The streams flow everywhere;

Venerable Ajita goes off course,
they wish to be reborn:

They wishes for the preventing with confidence ...
wishes ...

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

What do you want? What is the hindrances? And what is the hindrances are protected by listening to?
What do you undergo, oppressed by death?

what’s the reason why.
What is the reason why.

He explains what is inferior and superior. So let them explain the hindrances,”
So tell the hindrances, earned, nose, tongue, body, and mind.

For the restraint of stream-entry,
That is the restraint of the ear,

Since they strive, they flow no more, thinking:
They cried and run along within their fathers, crushing and running back and forth, and they don’t run back to the beginning, middle, or end.

by what is held dear?
whose mind is full of light,

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin replied,

“Streams are flowing everywhere,

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

what’s the reason why.
What is the reason why.

For the restraint of stream-entry,
That is the restraint of the ear,

Who have you loved ones?”
whose mind is full of light?”

that person in the world
that’s in the world,

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Those who block the mindfulness.
and mindfulness its careful driver.

I say the restraint of stream-entry,
I declare the restraint of the ear;

but not as much as they like.
if it is the personal winning wisdom;

But when I’ve taught the world’s specifically described, then do as well as I consumed to them, establishing them, clarify the analyzing, and revealing of the world.
When I’ve taught the world’s teachings, I explain them to them. What is meant is that:

Craving is a cause of defilement, defilements, and ignorance.
Craving is a cause of suffering, a corruption of the defilements, and ignorance.

He looks at the world of the gods, in the human world, the world of men, and the world of the gods.
in the world of the gods, delight in the world of men, looked at the world of the gods.

that person in the world
that’s in the world,

The Fortunate One, attacked him with the brahmin Pajirā
The Fortunate One, carried the brahmin Ajita by name,

They create mindfulness
Mindfulness means

mindfulness,

this is called mindfulness.
This is called mindfulness.

Experiencing the reasons, ~ protect the hindrances, and protect the faculty of crossing.
thoroughly protected, the hindrances protected by reason, the oppression, and the practice of movement.

Those who block the mindfulness.
and mindfulness its careful driver.

I say, ‘I teach the restraint,’ and the hindrances are protected.
I say that listening to the ear ...

I make amends for it.’
I make known, I shall explain,

I say the restraint of stream-entry,
I declare the restraint of the ear;

if he is not available;
if she is known after understanding the person’s wisdom;

understanding as wisdom there is from understanding, preference, or right view.
wisdom is known as “Suppose that wisdom, right view, right thought, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right immersion.”

when they have acquired wisdom—
After applies to the wisdom they prevent you:

They grow in wisdom, they don’t lazy, and don’t flow intoxication.
They don’t play around the lake, and don’t later.

“For all conditions are impermanent,” so they don’t grow,”
“All conditions are impermanent, suffering, and perishable.” They don’t later, and they play around with growing on all sides.

They know and see regarding choices as suffering, they don’t flow and pass away.
“All conditions are suffering,” they do not found in me or pass away.

“For all conditions are not-self,” nor do they readily grow in.
“All conditions are impermanent and suffering,” they do not grow old.

“Ignorance” is a condition for choices. It isn’t found in me.
“Ignorance is a condition for choices.” They do not know or see or see or hear the lady, nor do they fall in return.

‘Choices are a condition for consciousness.’ ...
“With (volitional) processes as condition: consciousness,”

“Consciousness is a condition for name and form.” ...
consciousness is a condition for name and form. ...

“With mind and bodily form as condition: the six sense spheres.” ...
‘With mind and bodily form as condition: the six sense spheres.’ ...

the six sense fields are conditions for contact ...

feeling is a condition for feeling ...
“Contact is a condition for feeling.” ...

“Do you see that feeling is a condition for craving?” ...
“Feeling is a condition for craving.” ...

“Craving is a condition for grasping” ...
“Craving is a condition for grasping.” ...

“Grasping is a condition for continued existence.” ...

continued existence is a condition for rebirth ...

“Rebirth is a condition for old age and death” , and so they don’t grow in return to indulgence.
“Since they know or see or hear a condition for old age and death,” they don’t laugh, played, and roll back.

when ignorance ceases, choices cease ...
‘Ignorance ceases when ignorance ceases, choices cease.’ ...

when choices cease consciousness ceases ...
When that ceases, consciousness ceases. ...

when consciousness ceases name and form cease ...

“When name and form cease, the six sense fields cease.” ...

When the six sense fields cease, contact ceases. ...
that when the six sense fields cease, contact ceases ...

when contact ceases, feeling ceases ...
that when contact ceases, feeling ceases ...

when feeling ceases, craving ceases ...

“Craving ceases, grasping ceases.” ...

“Do you see that when grasping ceases continued existence ceases ...”
“Do you see that when grasping ceases continued existence ceases ...

when continued existence ceases, rebirth ceases ...

“Since they know and see from the cessation of old age and death, aren’t found,” They don’t lazy, and slighted, lead to peace, proclaimed by old age and death.
“Since they know or see when rebirth ceases, old age and death cease,” they don’t laugh it and slighted.

“This is suffering” ...

“This is the origin of suffering” ...

“This is the cessation of suffering” ...

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”. They don’t slightly know or see clearly, and don’t flow.
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”. They don’t know or see or hear about the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering. They don’t wander and don’t flow.

“These are defilements” ...

“This is the origin of defilements” ...

when that ceases,
that when she ceases,

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements.” They do not know or see in some way that the practice that leads to the cessation of wisdom, and they don’t flow.

“These things should be directly known.” ...
‘No, these things are allowable.’ ...

“These things should be completely understood.” ...

“These things should be given up.” ...
“‘These are the things that should be given up.’ ...

“These things should be developed.” ...

“These things lead to the truth,” they do not understand.
“These things are to be found, knowing and seeing. They don’t grow in full and pure, they don’t grow disillusioned with it.

the six fields of contact’s origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape. They don’t lend an ear or apply themselves to the eye.
the six fields of contact, its origin, its cessation, and the practice that leads to its cessation. They don’t level ignorance or pass away.

ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
the origin and ending of the five grasping aggregates’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape ...

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape ...

“Since one does not know and see everything that has a beginning has an end, in accordance with the teaching.”
“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They flow in the teaching, they don’t laugh it and slightest fault, and they don’t flow.

but not as much as they like.
if it is the personal winning wisdom;

The Buddha replied,

“Whatever streams there are in the world

He carries off thighs,
He calls unqualled,

Those who block the mindfulness.
and mindfulness its careful driver.

I say the restraint of stream-entry,
I declare the restraint of the ear;

when they’re loved by the noble ones.”
of wisdom.”

mindfulness and wisdom,
Wisdom and mindfulness,

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

name and form.

When I asked this, I return to my range.
When I’ve questioned this,

does this conflict with what is constant.
However, is it conflict with you?

and mindfulness and full of wisdom:
And wisdom and mindfulness arise,

wisdom, which is founded on encounter of wisdom, example, glorious, liberating, and investigation of the state of loss, wisdom, and materiality, the power of wisdom, and the attributes of wisdom.
wisdom, it conquers the wisdom, phenomena, inspiring conduct, wisdom, freedom, and eradication, and observes the mark of wisdom. It is the power of wisdom, the language of wisdom, the investigation of wisdom, the language of wisdom, the enlightenment of wisdom, the language of wisdom, the investigation of principles of wisdom, and right view.

mindfulness ...

right livelihood:
right mindfulness:

Mindfulness and wisdom, said venerable Ajita,
Yet overly knowing, said venerable Ajita,

Mātali and name are form:
name and form are conceived.

the four formless constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.
formless and formless.

The four great elementals and bodily-form derived from the great elementals.

terminator as respect and reverence, that is to say:
is a term for praise.

name and form.

And this is what I’ve asked.
When asked this question, I tell you.

I ask you about this, since I ask about what I have said,
whatever I ask, for permission from me, that I ask, whatever I ask,

asked, who was asked by questions, and invited by questions,
asked, by questioning, thus it is requested by questions.

One should explain, teach, assert, establish, clarify, analyze, and reveal it.
He explains, teaches, asserts, establishes, clarifies, analyzes, and reveals the inferior.

When I asked this, I return to my range.
When I’ve questioned this,

However, does it not conflict with them?
what is conveying.

how to resolve it, when the mind ceases, it ceases.”
if he goes, saying, “This is the meaning of this;”

does this conflict with what is constant.
However, is it conflict with you?

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin then thought,

“Knowledge and mindfulness,

adding,
Ajita, Venerable Ajita,

name and form.

When I asked this, I return to my range.
When I’ve questioned this,

does such a thing?”
what is going on.”

Since this is so,
When I’m asked this question,

they’ve not been blessed.
they’re not able to be one, I say.

Where name and form
And where name and form

cease with nothing left over;

with the cessation of consciousness,

that’s where this ceases.

Whenever he asks this,
When he asks a question,

When this exists name and form are wise and form
That which is called ‘mind and the name and form’,

You asked whether you ask me about something, and you are requested.
Thinking: ‘Do you ask about something, may you be asked about it?’

Since this is so,
When I’m asked this question,

they’re not old, I say.
it’s not appropriate for you, I say.

The Fortunate One, attacked him with the brahmin Pajirā
The Fortunate One, carried the brahmin Ajita by name,

When this happens, name and form are wise.
Their mindfulness and the name and form

I teach, assert, I explain, declare, establish, clarify, analyze, and reveal it.
I declare, declare, I teach, establish, clarify, analyze, and reveal it.

they’ve not been blessed.
they’re not able to be one, I say.

Where name and form are conceived: the four formless constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.
Where name and form are constituent: the four formless constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment.

The four great elementals and bodily-form derived from the great elementals.

Everywhere they are all included in the rest of the descriptions, and all of them are terms of search.
all kinds of misconduct are included all; that is not tense in the cases of the remainder.

ceases, then that ceases.
when he ceases, then his ends;

As to where mind and body ceases without remainder:

consciousness arises dependent on the cessation of consciousness. Their settling is produced by the cessation of consciousness, settles on the path to the cessation of continued existence, and no longer manifestation of it.
consciousness would cease without anything left over.

Of those who destinations by consciousness, by the cessation of continued existence would die down, and those who cease in them.
The Sakyan daughters of a Once-Returner who possesses the five kinds of existence after the cessation of continued existence would cease.

Without going away or mixed up with one of the form elements, the cessation of form, and settles away.
the non-returner conceived by the path of cessation consciousness if consciousness were settle down by one or other of forms; and whenever they die they cease.

With the cessation of perfection they faded away. When these things were to cease, their name and form cease.
...

caste they cease and perish.
“A perfected one fully awakened Buddha has entered upon the natural principle of extinguishment by the consciousness element and the cessation of consciousness, and the settles away and ceased.”

with the cessation of consciousness,

The Buddha replied,

“This question that was asked,

they’ve not been blessed.
they’re not able to be one, I say.

Where name and form
And where name and form

cease with nothing left over;

with the cessation of consciousness,

that’s where this ceases.”

Those who have appraised the teaching,

and the many kinds of trainees here—

expel the alert,
do my alert.

when questioned, dear Sir,
when questioned, dear Sir, please tell me their conduct.

And those who have appraised the teaching, completed the spiritual journey, done what had to be done, laid down the burden,
Those who have appraised the teaching, are called the perfected ones with defilements ended.

the perfected ones have a unconditioned roots, and are said to be destroyed.
the perfected ones with pollutants, without pollutants,

They have been created by nature, relatives, and state of unconditioned; and have dissolved -
They have immaculate nature, and are liable to work. They have someone else liable to perishing who have perished liable to fade away.

All conditioned things are impermanent, suffering, and perishable.
All conditions are impermanent, suffering, and perishable. They are included in what is impermanent, perishing, perishing, and changing.

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

All things are not-self ...
all things are not-self ...

‘Ignorance is a condition for choices.’ ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Anything that has a beginning has an end. They’re liable to originate, workable, and hard to pass away.”

Then the constituents (of mind and body) that provide fuel for attachment, the elements, and the sense fields are conditioned.
Then the aggregates, the air elements, the sense-spheres, and the produced in brief.

Or he stands standing on the edge of the periphery, the limit of a limit of examining, the expounding and the number of perfected ones.
Then, standing on the sea, the assembly hall with a limited period, standing on the end of the dimension of infinite space. While standing on the last side the limit of the movement, he stands firmly sea. It stands to be found, like the number of perfected ones.

and his last.
This is their last,

and this bag of bones is my last.
this bag of bones is my last

Craving for birth and death.
will long undergo

there is no future lives.
there’s no future lives for them.

have the perfected ones, the pollutants that are reckoned as an expert on.
The perfected ones, the pollutants are said to be horn of the truth.

And those who have appraised the teaching, those who are trainees, who are followed here:
Those who have appraised the teaching, and those who are trainees (where) here,

The trainees of what is called the “base”.
those of trainees, what is called “in training”.

Those in training:
Those trains:

And what is the training?

The training in the higher ethics, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom.

What is the training in the higher ethics?

It’s when a mendicant is ethical, restrained in the monastic code, conducting themselves well and seeking alms in suitable places. Seeing danger in the slightest fault, they keep the rules they’ve undertaken.

Harmless virtue is exceedingly started in ethics, the intention to restrain, and the skillful qualities that lead to awakening. They act in conformity with failure in ethics.
Hurtless virtue is excessive in precepts—the welcome, the above, the bed, the bench, the maturity, and the idea that when it comes to developing skillful qualities:

this is the training in the higher ethics.

What is the training in the higher mind?

Firstly, a mendicant, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption ...

second absorption ...

... the third absorption,” ...
the third absorption ...

enters and remains in the fourth absorption.
fourth absorption.

These are the higher mind.
This is the training in the higher mind.

What is the training in the higher wisdom?
in the higher wisdom?

It’s for a mendicant who’s wise. They have the wisdom of arising and passing away which is noble, penetrative, and leads to the complete ending of suffering.

He truly understands: “This is suffering” ... “This is the origin of suffering” ...
He knows as it really is “this is suffering” ...

“This is the cessation of suffering” ...

he knows as it really is “this is the practice going to the cessation of suffering”.
he knows as it really is “this is the Practice Leading to the Cessation of Suffering”.

“These are defilements” ...
“‘These are defilements’ ...

“This is the origin of defilements” ...

when that ceases,
that when she ceases,

he knows as it really is “this is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.
he truly understands the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements.

the higher wisdom ...

These are the three trainings that are proper for someone who understands, and who trains in tranquility to train. They practice breathing out immersing in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. They train the training rules to understand.
These are the three trainings that should be trained and calmed. They know and see, train in determining the training. They end in faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and wisdom. They should develop the training.

they’re called
These are what is meant.

the trainee,
the trainees,

who have many feet,
the many-folk are many,

these trainees practicing the way are stream-enterers, once-returners, and those practicing the path to non-returners.
These are the practicing trainees, and the perfected ones practicing well, both once and non-returners.

Take here in this teaching and training. In this teaching and training they choose life to be eaten, drunk, chest, and tasted in this teaching and training.
here in this teaching and training: in this teaching and training, in this teaching and training, in the Teacher’s instruction. In this teaching and training, in this teaching and training, in this teaching and training, in this teaching and training.

and the many kinds of trainees here—

when I was questioned, (Buddha), Nimbaru, I said to them: “My wise man, a clever man, and a skilful knowledge master.”
My question, when asked whether he was asked, he said: “Now, I was wise, learned, a clever speaker of (the Buddha), and wise, had a knowledge master.”

To quieten the Dhamma and of the trainees, lived in a residence nearby.
To quell them rolled forth the teaching and training, they lived for a trainee, a practice of roaming the resort.

asked, who was asked by questions, and invited by questions,
asked, by questioning, thus it is requested by questions.

He explains, teaches, asserts, establishes, clarified, analyzed, and revealed the teaching.
He explains, teaches, asserts, establishes, clarifies, analyzes, and reveals the meaning.

terminator as respect and reverence, that is to say:
is a term for praise.

when I ask the prudent one, please tell me their conduct, dear Sir.

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin replied,

“Those who have appraised the teaching,

and the many kinds of trainees here—

expel the alert,
do my alert.

when questioned, please tell me.”
when questioned, please tell me their conduct.”

Don’t attack sensual pleasures,
may not lose sensual pleasures.

would be filled with awareness.

a wholesome thing,
wholesome things,

to give up desire for rebirth.”
to give up sensual desire.

Don’t relinquish sensual pleasures:
Should not commit sexual misconduct:

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

Sense desire for objects and defilements.
Sense desire for objects and defilements,

What is sense desire for objects?

pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. Feelings, elephants, horses, and mares; elephants, towns, cities, and countries; there are bandits; tall and kings of town and country.
pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. Goldens, elephants, horses, bandits, ties, or benefactors, or male and female bondservants, elephants, horses, and mares, and gold and money.

whatever enticing objects there are, these are the objects of sense desires.

Furthermore, past sense desires, future sense desires, present and internal sense desires; internal and external sense desires are inferior; superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a heavenly realm. All these things are seen in the sense desires, sensual pleasures.
Furthermore, past sense desires, future sense desires, present sense desires; middling sense desires are a middling; midling sense desires are inferior; middling; middling and superior; the sense desires of aggregates; sensual pleasures are subtlety, tied to the sense desires that are oppressed; and sense desires that are internal and external; and sense desires are present; and sensual pleasures; and sense desires are all found; and sense desires that are not object.

These are said to be the sense desires for objects.

What defilements like?
What are the defilements that cause?

Sensual desire, greed, desire, fondness, thirst, passion, and craving for sensual pleasures.

I saw the root of sensual pleasures,
The roots of sensual pleasures,

you’re struck by desire
you’re a springing by desire!

I won’t strike you,
I won’t think,

doesn’t winnow the senses
so you won’t be reborn

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

Craving is called ‘doubt’.
Greed is called greed, hate, and delusion.

Don’t covetousness any defilements, aggressive, defiled, disturbed, and shake off sensual desire, oppressed by greed, hate, and delusion; and they’d be shaken by greed, hate, and delusion; and they’ve given uplifted by lustful desire, oppressed by greed, hate, and delusion.
They don’t neglect sensual pleasures; they’re uncleaned infected with sensual pleasures; they don’t get caught up in the neighborhood; greedy, hate, and delusion; they’re not exempt from sensual desires, ill will, confusion, and fearless. They’re free of greed, free from greed, hate, and delusion.

Don’t attack sensual pleasures,
may not lose sensual pleasures.

to in thought with mind.
would be shaken by the mind.

mind, thoughts, mind consciousness, and mind contact are conscious.
mind element, the mind-consciousness element, the mind-made body, the mind-consciousness element, and the mind consciousness element.

They’re moved by bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and stirred up a hill.
They’re abiding in bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and strayed with leaf-hut.

by way of body, speech, and mind. ...
by way of body, speech, and mind. ...”

Bad conduct ...
by way of body, speech, and mind. ...

full of greed, hate, and delusion ...
greed ...

hate ...

delusion ...

anger ...

hostility ...

flies ...
offensive,

contempt ...

jealous ...
jealousy ...

stinginess ...
stingy ...

your mother ...
a magician ...

deceived ...
for an offense entailing acknowledgment ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

conceit ...

disgrace ...
ties,

or even the deities ...
or even drunk ...

negligence ...

so that defilements are defiled ...
so that all defilements ...

For all kinds of conduct ...
entirely full of bad conduct ...

“Giver ...”
“Forms arise ...

contemplates ...
of all kinds,

entirely ...

All the unwholesome mind has been disturbed, well-formed, and bubbling it rubbed with a stick.
All the wholesome very skilful meditation subjects having been disturbed with razor-ged, and scared.

Mindfulness should be disturbed:
or plaster over mind.

It’s not because of disrespect, untrue and untrueling, and unruffled. It might be capable of realizing the defilements, eliminated, and obliterated.
Greed, this is untroubled, this is why unguarded, discontent, depressed, oppressed, and spittle. They’d give up tired, unwelling, liberated, and neglected. Or they’d live detached.

would be filled with awareness.

All conditions are impermanent.
Skilled in all things.

“All conditions are suffering”—
“All conditions are suffering.” ...

All things are not-self ...
“All things are not-self.” ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

so too wholesome things are skillful,
This is how a wholesome thing

Or again ...
Or they are skilled in all things and not-self ...

Rohitassa ...
one disease ...

The chapter on ear-hoeks ...
reproduced by an egg,

a dart,

misery ...

affliction ...

the other side ...
the other side of another ...

contrary to the Teaching ...
forwards ...

rapture ...

Upacāla ...

swayed ...

cruelty ...
above, below,

... and outcaste is void.
... and the color of oil ...

your wife ...

unincluded ...
unrestrained ...

unshakable ...
unbroken,

the meditation on universal ...
the dead ...

sorrowless ...
with tears as an island ...

If it is unfavourable,
the sorrowless,

If he is rid of desire ...
When it is left ...

hollow ...
empty ...

... the emptiness attainment,” ...

not-self ...

drawbacks ...

perishable ...
decaying and perishing ...

unattached ...
you’re far from being a youth,

root ...
the root of misery ...

a killer of a killer ...
killed ...

continued existence ...

They don’t defecate ...
being soon ...

conditioned phenomena ...

bait ...
because of being Māra’s power ...

They understand rebirth ...
They’re liable to be reborn ...

old age,
who is liable to grow old ...

sickness ...

Deathless ...

experience sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress,
sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress,

thoughts ...

their origin,

blemish ...
the ending of knocking ...

gratification ...

drawbacks ...

escape from all skillful things.
escape from all things.

so too wholesome things are skillful,
This is how a wholesome thing

Or what is skillful and unskillful in the sense fields is unskillful, while skilled in the sense fields, in regard to mindfulness, and skilled in regard to the body, skilled in mindfulness, and skilled in terms of the sense faculties.
Or he is skilled in the air element, skilled in the sense fields, dependent origination, and skill in dependently originated. He is skilled in terms of the sense faculties, skilled in the mindfulness meditation subjects, and skilled in mindfulness and skilled in profitables.

so too wholesome things are skillful,
This is how a wholesome thing

Or alternatively, all of them are called ‘corruptions’.
Or alternatively, all of them are called the twelve sense fields:

the eye and sights, the ear and sounds, the nose and smells, the tongue and tastes, the body and touches, and the mind and thoughts.

When they’ve given up desire and greed for the interior sense fields,
When it has been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future, at that point they are unable to arise in the future.

a wholesome thing,
wholesome things,

to give up sensual desire.

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

Contemplating the feelings that are unification of mind, while the mind is established in feelings. It is manifested as a mental object, mindfully knowing the mind, developing mindfulness.
Contemplation of feelings is placed on the feelings that is constantly established in feelings. Mindfulness in order to proceed equipment by developing the mind, mindfulness, and situational awareness.

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

When there is no being inclination, there is no mindfulness that is foundation for mindfulness and situational awareness, your mindfulness is established and situational awareness, and being granted.
When there is no agitation there is no inclination to be done and obstinately sticking to mindfulness and situational awareness, mindfulness and situational awareness.

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

My mindfulness is established and lucid. It is preserved by mindfulness and situational awareness, mindful and aware.
(And) mindfulness and goodness, possesses mindfulness and situational awareness, being mindful and alert, mindful and aware, substantive, and mindfulness.

Another four reasons:
Destroy the four reasons:

mindful, with good mere mindfulness, endowed with good qualities, mindful, and alertness.
* Developing the mindfulness and goodness, possessed of mindfulness and situational awareness, is mindful and he possesses mindfulness.

Recollection of the Buddha is a recollection of the Dhamma. Recollection of the Saṅgha is recollection of virtue. Mindfulness of breathing, recollection of deities, Mindfulness of death, and mindfulness of breathing. Mindfulness of death, Mindfulness of the body, Recollection of peace.
Recollection of the Buddha is a Dhamma consisting in conformity with the Dhamma. Mindfulness of the body, speech, and mind. Recollection of generosity, mindfulness of breathing, and recollection of death.

That which is mindfulness, in contemplating the awakening factor of mindfulness, mindfulness, and situational awareness.
The mindfulness of breathing is the recollection of the awakening factor of mindfulness. This is called right mindfulness.

With this mindfulness he is said to be endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,
With this mindfulness he is endowed, truly endowed, having attained, truly attained,

Because of breaking up the seven things that you become a mendicant.
The monks, who were breaking seven things:

Identity view, doubt, misapprehension of precepts and observances, greed, hate, delusion, and conceit.

They have broken off the bad, unskillful qualities.

They’ve done what’s given by oneself,
It is by oneself that to be done by oneself,

The Buddha has confessed this:
said the Buddha to Vaḍḍha.

has attained Nibbāna.
one who has gone to the end of suffering,

to progress and decline,
having given up continued existence to end existence,

eaten what has been stored up, he is a mendicant who lives in dependence on another.
(And) held up, a bhikkhu with no continuation at all,

a mendicant would go forth thinking: ‘May I be like this!’
a mendicant would walk as if they were to go out and die, stand, sit down, lie down, and cracking a hundred years. They’d do what they were told, and he was living in return.

to give up desire for rebirth.”
to give up sensual desire.

The Buddha replied,

“Painfully greed for sense pleasures,
“In regard to sense pleasures,

would be filled with awareness.

a wholesome thing,
wholesome things,

to give up desire for rebirth.
to give up sensual desire.

When they were finished, some of the brahmins with the same verses, while some of them sat together in one part of the Truth:
Other verses with them, together with some of the brahmins, and some with the one-and-a-half, aiming at the end of the paths, one thousand, and one thousand-eyeder. They experienced the stainless vision of the Truth:

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

His mind was freed from the defilements by not grasping.
his mind was freed from the pollutants without attachment.

Also a number of robes were victorious, adorned with the thorny requisites, and dressed in ladies of robes. As a result, he was sitting in meditation on the outer robe fund.
Acording to Worthiness Leader, Victorious over his head, and preparing adornments and wrapped in robes of the Buddha. And sitting in his robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

“Sir, you’re my teacher, I’m your disciple.”

The first question of the Birth Story Questions
The first question of Absorption

