Cūḷaniddesa

Pārāyanavagganiddesa

Pucchāniddesa

This I ask of such a question, Description of the Three Times
Tissa the rainy season

content in the world,
content in the world, peaceful and stable,

adding, “Venerable Tissa is better
‘The venerable Tissa is better

Whose meditation are stupid?
Whose strikes are destroyed?

Who is studied with knowledge?
Who is stubborn in both ways:

and is not stuck in the middle.

a great man,
He is a great man, a great man,

here who is the seamstress here?
here who is serene,

Santusita is content in the world, contented and happy. And they have got all they wished for.
is content in the world, contented, elated, and happy in the world.

content in the world,
content in the world, peaceful and stable,

adding, “Venerable Tissa is better.
they would like that venerable Tissa.

wishes: Physical tricks compounds of the meaning, filled with phrases, and blows.
Thus there is causing he will saying: “In this way the meaning of the phrases, that is to say, the phrases, the phrases, and the phrases.”

With the intention of making:
Liberation:

this is a term for respect and reverential salutation.
This is a term for respect and reverence for his welfare.

Venerable Dismission:
Venerable Bhaddiyati:

Then it’s a name for the three classes of rebirth phenomena that designates the name and clan name.
Tissa’s name is the name of the three classes of rebirth, the name of the designation of label, and descriptions.

It’s better for him to understand that the class of rebirth is reckoned as a brahmin.
It’s good for you to understand what kind of meditation is reckoned as a brahmin.

adding, “Venerable Tissa is better
‘The venerable Tissa is better

Whose view is defiled, Viewed, bright, flawless, and imperturbable.
I a mendicant whose view is defiled.

Where are they not found, nor are they abandoned, cut off, destroyed, or contemptible?
When can’t be destroyed, there is no truth, no infatuation, thirst, and passion for knowledge and vision.

Whose meditation are stupid?
Whose strikes are destroyed?

Who, knowing he was thinking: “Who knows my virtue? Who is the discoverer of, who knows?” and having experienced them, he bowed and respectfully circled them, keeping him on his right, before leaving,
Who knows about it? having directly known their unsurpassed knowledge, who knows what is known as having directly known, and having directly experienced them, thus developed them,

Who is studied with knowledge?
Who is stubborn in both ways:

They don’t get caught up in the midst of the hymns. They don’t hold fast to their mind without hurting or liberating. They live with a heart free of limits.
They don’t get caught up in the middle. They don’t try hard, strive, liberated, and don’t get rid of the stain of stinginess. They live with a mind free of limits.

and is not stuck in the middle.

He is a great man, a good person, an excellent person, who is best of men, a great man,
He is a great man, who is best of men, a great man, who is best of towns, cattle, a supreme person, a supreme person.

Who do you think, Simila? Are you a about this? Do you see yours? Are you imagining about this?”
If you say, “Who do you see this?”

a great man,
He is a great man, a great man,

Who here has arisen in this very life, and who here has passed away, ceased and perished?
here who has gone beyond craving. Which has passed away, that which is ...

here who is the seamstress here?
here who is serene,

That brahmin is why he’s told:
The brahmin then thought,

“Who’s content in the world?
“They’re happy in the world,

adding, “Venerable Tissa is better
‘The venerable Tissa is better

Whose meditation are stupid?
Whose strikes are destroyed?

Who is studied with knowledge?
Who is stubborn in both ways:

and is not stuck in the middle.

a great man,
He is a great man, a great man,

what is the seamstress here?”
who here has escaped the seam?”

The spiritual life is lived under the heading of sensual pleasures.
for sensual pleasures, living the spiritual life,

The Buddha has good will,

rid of craving, always mindful,
Rid of craving, always mindful,

they’ve become quenched.
A mendicant comes to be quenched.

But in fact, there are higher.
But there are no motion

The spiritual life under the heading of sensual pleasures:
sexual misconduct.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They want to site for them ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

the spiritual life is called abstaining from sexuality; refraining from distributing from bad qualities; he refrains from making amends for an offense.
the spiritual life is said to be produced in an uninterrupted attainment of loses, refraining from in refraining from false speech.

however, the spiritual path is called the noble eightfold path, that is:
Rather, the spiritual path is called the noble eightfold path. That is:

right view, right thought, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right immersion.

When someone has this noble eightfold path, they’re called ‘the spiritual life’.
When someone has this noble eightfold path, they’re called ‘one who has fallen from the noble eightfold path’.

And just as one is called ‘a wealth’ because they are called ‘accomplished in wealth’—accomplished in wisdom’.
And just as one is called ‘accomplishment’ because one who is wealthy through wealth and fame’ is called “accomplished from wealth”; and so on.

is called a noble eightfold path—
is called a noble eightfold path endowed with these eight factors.

The spiritual life is lived under the heading of sensual pleasures.
for sensual pleasures, living the spiritual life,

The Buddha has given that kind of brahmin Gotamī.
The Buddha got the same reply.

The Buddha has designated Māra’s statements, that is,
“It’s terminator ...”

The Buddha has good will,

rid of craving, always mindful.
Without craving, always mindful:

craving for sights ...

They’ve cut off craving, untied the attachment to rebirth, old age, and death, from sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress.
They’ve given up craving and cut off craving, untied the fetters, and by a grasping, they’re called a Craving for sensual pleasures. They have cut off craving, eliminated craving, and obliterated craving. They’re said to be happy and free of greed and free of greed.

Standing at the time of the whole very time, he is always clung to how to touch all over the hundred times of contact, in the first watch, the middle watch, and in the last watch. Hes whispered in the middle have been brought by the top, ashes, when there is needle case, etc., before the last watch of the night and its distinction between.
Standing by a hundred times, abode, all the time, well-known, decorated to all hundred times, It was always on a day, to the top of all the journey, and forwards, and for as long as it was before. In the first rainy season, it was time to break offered by the central courages, the in the last watch, the middle one, the last watch, the ocean in the last watch, as it was middden.

Sattuka for four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

developing mindfulness of the body,
developing the body consisting in contemplation of mindfulness occupied with the body,

Contemplating the feelings that are unification of mind. Mindfulness is the mind in samādhi. Mindfulness is the physical endurance of the mind, thoughts, and consciousness. ...
Contemplation of feeling ... Mindfulness of the mind, keeping it connected. Mindfulness is seeing things that are prone to being overwhelmed by pain, etc., as they develop mindfulness of the mind, and develop mindfulness meditation.

they’re called a sentient being.

rid of craving, always mindful,
Rid of craving, always mindful,

they’re called ‘a mendicant who has become fully extinguished’.
they’re said to be ‘a mendicant’.

That which is wisdom, knowing, investigation, deep investigation, love, and right view.
wisdom, which is wisdom, investigation, deep knowledge, and right view, and right thought.

After appraisal, he rose up into the True Dhamma and attained Absorption, including and knowing, “Hearing what is impermanent, what is said!” and he made known as ‘Choices are impermanent’.
After having calculated the horn, he knew what he had thought, “Just now,” and he bowed down, chosen, and made him give it to him, he planted him, saying, “Disting the impermanence of conditions,” and he choosened them, he chooses.

All conditions are suffering. ...
“All conditions are suffering” ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They perished, clinging to the teaching, and becoming distinguished, he subsequently removed.
“Anything that has a beginning has an end.” They perished and clearly knowing that all things, he developed insight into the True Dhamma. Then, having removed all, he sustained it and developed it.

Or alternatively, knowing what is impermanent ...

suffering ...

The chapter on ear-hoeks ...
reproduced by an egg,

blind to the drawbacks,
Effacement ...

Having destroyed the escape from (him), and being free from (the immon), he illuminated (him),
After being reckoned as an opportunity, he developed insight and attained unsuitable state,

Being extinguished, they’re extinguished due to disillusionment, dispassion, and cessation regarding anger.
When they’re extinguished, they’re extinguished because of disillusionment, dispassion, and cessation regarding anger.

hostility ...

Makkhali ...

contempt ...

stinginess ...

deviousness ...

obstinacy ...

aggression ...

having given up conceit ...
you’re having given up conceit ...

Through conceit ...
the conceit ‘I am’ ...

the sweet ...
the vanity of vanity ...

negligence ...

so that all defilements are given up ...
so that defilements are given up ...

For all bad conduct ...
The Realized One has given up all bad conduct. ...

everyone,
‘For every day’ ...

complete understanding ...
the all of the passions ...

everyone,
all beings ...

(Has) wholesome intentions were extinguished, and so on,
being quenched through the wholesome intentions, were extinguished.

Because of breaking up the seven things that you were a mendicant who had been broken off such a curtain:
Monks, when the monks are sent back to the seven things that you were broken off, having destroyed what has been worn away and eroded,

they’ve become quenched.
A mendicant comes to be quenched.

But they’re disturbed by us.
But there are no motion

and having destroyed the pollutants,
the perfected one with defilements ended:

trembling, craving, disturbance, and grasping.
I’m a determined, transperturbable, strayed, and imperturbable.

But there is no way in moderation, there is no winds that have been given up, there is no concern for them.
But there is no barrenness, there is no rebirth-linking, old age, and death—are not able to discern them,

But in fact, there are higher.
But there are no motion

The Buddha replied,

“Among greedy living the spiritual life,
“Among the spiritual life

The Buddha has good will,

rid of craving, always mindful,
Rid of craving, always mindful,

they’ve become quenched.
A mendicant comes to be quenched.

and someone who has disturbed wisdom.”
you have a victor.”

Understanding your park,
Understanding your wisdom,

and is not stuck in the middle.

He is a great man, I declare,

Here he sews here,
Here he sewns away after death.

He is the wise man who has known both ends, and isn’t stuck in the middle.
He is the wise man, who has known both ends, and is undefiled in the middle.

contact, the origin of contact, the cessation of contact, and the middle of contact.
contact, one end. The origin of contact is the second end. The cessation of contact is the second end. The cessation of contact is the middle.

One of the past, future, and present.

pleasant feeling, painful, and neutral feeling.

One with name and form in the second, consciousness the middle of consciousness,
mind is one end. The second is the middle of form, consciousness is the second in the middle.

The six interior sense fields are only one sense fields. The six exterior sense fields is the second consciousness.
Six interior sense fields, one is the second exterior sense fields, and consciousness in the middle.

identity, the origin of identity, and the cessation of identity.

understanding that is called ‘perfection’, its origin, its cessation, and the right view’.
They understand what is called wisdom.

There are two kinds of plastering:
there are two kinds of shelter:

Craving, Craving, and views
The dart of craving and view

What is craving?

Craving is the size of the building sites made by oneself, by another.
As far as the method of craving was fixed in the boundaries, made known, setting on the limit of the Ciractive:

“This is how my portion of mine, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. That’s how mine are mine.”
“This is how mine, this is mine.”

(but) this great earthquake from the whole world,
This great earth, this living of the very life,

How far as there are these eight hundred and eight hundred of cravings:
So far as there are these eight hundred and eight hundred.

This is the ending of craving.
This is the root of craving.

What is view?
What is the wrong view?

The ten grounds for views, twenty-two parts, thirty grounds for views, and tendencies. They’re attached to views, holding them tight, and refusing to let go. Nevertheless, the recipients of views. Protector insistance, views, doubt, and wrong views. This includes is the reinstance of views.
Ten grounds for identity views. The recipients of identity view, the recipients of wrong view, the recipients in the lower realm, the opposite sex, and the view finishing of views. The view of resort as far as the recipients of views is wrong view. This view is the only truth.

This view is the idiot of view.
This is the idea of view.

He has known both the scriptures and the middle of the day, and he does not know the sight of hymns. He lives untiedly, uninfatuated, unattached, liberated, and stainless. He doesn’t free his mind free of limits and free himself, liberated, and his mind free of limits.
Being unconfused, they don’t know the good. Nevertheless, having practiced them, they read the middle of getting stranded. They don’t lend an ear or apply their minds to understand, and don’t get rid of it. They don’t wield the way they don’t get caught up in the midst of the hymns. They don’t go beyond dispraise and don’t, thinking,

He is the wise man, who has known both ends, and is undefiled in the middle.

He is a great man, I say, is a person who is best of men, compared to be great men,
Here is a great man, I declare, is a great man, expert independent, the best of men, and I say. Let them be the great man who is the best of men. I declare you the highest person.”

Venerable Sāriputta said to the Buddha,

“Sir, they speak of ‘a great man’.

How is a great man defined?”

“Sāriputta, someone whose mind is free is great, I say.
“Sāriputta, someone whose mind is free is free, I say.

And how does someone have a free mind?

It’s when a mendicant meditates by observing an aspect of the body internally—keen, aware, and mindful, rid of desire and aversion for the world.

As they meditate observing an aspect of the body, their mind becomes dispassionate, and is freed from the defilements by not grasping.

feelings ...

They meditate observing an aspect of the mind ...

principles—keen, aware, and mindful, rid of desire and aversion for the world.

As they meditate observing an aspect of principles, their mind becomes dispassionate, and is freed from the defilements by not grasping.

That’s how a mendicant has a free mind.

But I say that when your mind is free, great man, and if it’s not free, I say.”
If their mind is free, I say.”

He is a great man, I declare,

Here they have escaped from craving.
Here is called a sewer because he has escaped craving.

Greed ...

Greed, hate, and delusion, when they have given up the roots of craving, they have cut off craving, untied the knowledge of the tales, and running hithers.
Greed is the root of covetousness, so the root of craving, which has been cut off, has been cut off at the root, made out.

When he has gone beyond craving, he has crossed over and gone beyond,
When he has gone beyond craving, he has gone beyond craving and non-monastery over, and he has passed away.

Here he sews here,
Here he sewns away after death.

The Buddha replied,

“Dearing for yourself,
“Having known the stain of thought,

and is not stuck in the middle.

He is a great man, I declare,

they’ve escaped the seamstress here.”
you have escaped the seam.

When they were finished, some of the brahmins with the same verses, while some of them sat together in one part of the Truth:
Other verses with them, together with some of the brahmins, and some with the one-and-a-half, aiming at the end of the paths, the stainless, immaculate vision of the Truth:

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

His mind was freed from the defilements by not grasping.
his mind was freed from the pollutants without attachment.

About Worthiness, Leader, and Accomplished One, and clung-tongued?
Approaching the four Actorships together with the: the Jina, and the pavilions and the knot-fall, and the hunter.

As a consequence for the outer robe, one with joined palms raised his joined palms raised in reverential sarong and say,
And while sitting in the outer robe of alms-food, wearing his robes and looking ahead and aside, he was sitting in his propound, thinking,

“Sir, you’re my teacher, I’m your disciple.”

The second method of Tissa the name of Tissa
The second rainy season residence in the passage for recitation of the Tissakamma.

