Cūḷaniddesa

Pārāyanavagganiddesa

Pucchāniddesa

This I ask you, King Mogharāja.
asking permission of the King of Devas

I’ll ask you about
I’ll ask you about it,

and Mogharāja.
Mogharāja, said venerable Mogharāja,

The seers of mine:
The Seer didn’t answer in the world,

After the third time the Queen Speaked.
he gives the third time the Queen.

declares I have heard:
so I have heard.

I’ll ask him about his own.
I was the brahmin asked question to the Buddha:

And the Buddha answered him:
And the Buddha didn’t answer it.

“This interruption of the faculty of the faculty will be a brahmin.”
“This interruptation will be the danger faculty of the faculties.”

the Sakyans are able to witness
was Sakka, the Sakyans,

The Fortunate One has gone forth from the Sakyan clan, too,
The Fortunate One, having gone forth from the Sakyan clan, is Sakka,

Then rich, affluent, and wealthy, even though they’re able to endure
Then rich, affluent, and wealthy,

He has these kinds of wealth:

For the wealth of faith, ethical conduct, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom.
For the wealth of faith, ethics, learning, generosity, and wisdom.

The wealth that was rich, affluent, and wealthy.
I was a rich man with these countless precious things, affluent, and wealthy.

Or he was able to get uproot.
Or they are able to give up that wound, fearless, scared, he ran away. And he was unable to get rid of responsibility regarding fearlessness.

I’ll ask you about self-control, fitting, and insubstantial.
I’ll ask you about it, and I’ll be able to satisfy him with my own hand.

I’ll ask you about
I’ll ask you about it,

and Mogharāja.

It’s impermanent ...
wishes ...

Piyaka ...
Venerable Piyaka ...

Mogharāja ...

and Mogharāja.
Mogharāja, said venerable Mogharāja,

The Seer answers to me,
The Seer didn’t answer to me,

He didn’t answer.
He didn’t answer, establish, clarify what I have said, did not declare.

The Buddha eyes and five eyes:

the Visionary-Seeing Visionary, the eye of the Buddha, and the clear vision of the Visionary, and the eye-contact-born of Visionary, the clear vision of the Eye-Seer.
And the eye of the flesh of the eye and the eye of the eye of wisdom, and the eye of the flesh, the eye of the eye and of the Buddha.

The Fortunate One, how did the Fortunate One see me
* The Fortunate One, how did the Fortunate One see me

The Buddha praised me with the eye of the flesh,
the Buddha’s praised me with the five kinds of vision:

blue and yellow, red, and white. ...
blue, yellow, red, and white. ...

Where the eyes are made of stone, blue, yellow, red, or white.
Where the eyes are established, blue-black, blue-black, and blue lotuses,

They had yellow, red, white, a beautiful golden garland, and a creeper.
They’re yellow, beautiful, and illustrious.

And they are bloody-handed, red and illustrious.
And they are sightly beautiful, charming eyes, etc. of both hands and feet.

They lie in the middle of the day in the Kaṇhāyanas, with a gravel and pebble.
They’re good in the middle of the day, with a glorious knife, handle, and feet sightly behind.

They’re white, with a white cloth from others, with a white stilt household, clean clothes, and beds.
They’re white, with white color, a white hue, and door.

Now, the Buddha made me drink by means of that incarnation for a whole night, with the eyes might see for a league all around both night and day.
Now, the Buddha sees me in the morning and through the whole of that life-forms a hundred leagues away from all around both for a day and night.

Because when he has four factors, he is darkness and sunset from sun.
For when the sun has four factors, the darkness is abandoned, and the sun has set.

And the observance of the sabbath is large. It is a bunch of sesame flour, but it is chickly large.
And the observance-day procedure is large, like a wound. It is swelling out of the black storms, but it has not been swept away.

Having such a fourth factors he sees such as the darkness of night,
someone who has such eight factors sees such as yojanas,

no damage or archery, there’s no creeper, and making it from a conflagration.
no matter how to see a wall, a leaf-hut, or a mountain cleft, and a place wherever they can go and see visits.

If he were to make a fruit, he should put it away in the fruit of that same sign, and he should remove it.
If he took hold of a sesame floor by one, he’d pull it into (the fruit).

thus the Fortunate One’s vision Pāṭikaputta
thus the Fortunate One’s dispensation, (saying):

Thus the Fortunate One, having vision,
Thus the Fortunate One, having eyes,

How did the Fortunate One see with the divine eye?
How did the Fortunate One see with his divine eye?

With clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, the Buddha sees sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place.

They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

“These dear beings did bad things by way of body, speech, and mind.

They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell. These dear beings, however, did good things by way of body, speech, and mind. They never spoke ill of the noble ones; they had right view; and they chose to act out of that right view. When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a good place, a heavenly realm.’ And so, with clairvoyance that is purified and superhuman, they see sentient beings passing away and being reborn—inferior and superior, beautiful and ugly, in a good place or a bad place. They understand how sentient beings are reborn according to their deeds.

If he wished, the Buddha might see the world elements, and the four world elements, who might see the world elements, and the teaching, the Saṅgha in the world, and the world can see even and see the world elements. And all of them, who might see the world elements, a hundred and twenty thousand world elements, or thirty-elements.
If he wished, the Blessed One could see the world elements, and the perfected one, the fully awakened Buddha, had two, three and four elements of the world systems, and one might see in the world. And a single world-element. And a hundred thousand solar systems, mighty and embarrassed in the world. And you might see a thousand world-elements.

thus the Fortunate One is pure and bright.
thus so pure and bright,

Thus the Fortunate One has seen with his divine eye,
Thus the Fortunate One with his divine-eye,

How did the Fortunate One seers of wisdom?
How did the Fortunate One seers with the eye of wisdom?

He has great wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, swift wisdom, sharp wisdom, and penetrating wisdom. He has attained excess of ten kinds of widespread. And he converses confidence in his heart, who has attained enlightenment, who has arrived at the method of wisdom, and is free of enmity and ill will.
He, widespread wisdom, widespread wisdom, laughing wisdom, excelling the responsiveness of widespread wisdom, the laughing of wisdom, the One with great wisdom, the one with wide wisdom, the one with great wisdom, the one with poor wisdom, the wide wisdom, the one with no other conscious eyes.

For the Blessed One has arisen in the unarisen path, gave birth to the unborn path, explained the unexplained path. He was the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now he was fully explained the path.
For the Blessed One is the one who gave rise to the unarisen path, who gave birth to the unborn path, who explained the unexplained path. He is the knower of the path, the discoverer of the path, the expert on the path. And now we have now explained the wrong path.

For the Buddha knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.
For he is the Buddha, who knows and sees. He is vision, he is knowledge, he is the truth, he is holiness. He is the teacher, the proclaimer, the elucidator of meaning, the bestower of the deathless, the lord of truth, the Realized One.

There is no such thing as knowing and seeing the Buddha has not known, seen, understood, realized, and experienced this with wisdom.
There is no known or seen or understood or realized or experienced this with wisdom.

In the past, future, and present are present. All of the Buddhas come from in front to truly.
past, future, and present. All these things are included in the Buddha’s presence, and all his present.

Whatever I know—whether pleasant, painful, or neutral—that is the meaning—orruptions there is. What is beneficial or what is harmful, bordering on both sides—the meaning is beneficial or has been discovered. The meaning is beneficial or repulsion is beneficial.
Whatever there is, Is there anything that can be known—whether pleasant, painful, or neutral—that needs to be compared with observed because of the Dhamma that is beneficial or specific purpose—the meaning is beneficial, the meaning is this: it is beneficial, the ultimate, the meaning is the meaning.

all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not return to the Buddha, the urgency of deeds.
all the deeds done by way of body, speech, and mind do not experience knowledge.

regarding the Buddha’s knowledge of the past, the future, and the present is knowledge of the present.
Knowledge of the Buddha ...

knowledge of the decision: from the time period has a limited knowledge, but only then passes beyond, not by overcoming the rule.
knowledge of the limitless knowledge, and then does not know how to go beyond the limit of knowledge. Namely, he does not come over from the next life.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

As the sun (works) at the tops of the two, the upper rope does not smooth on the above ground.
As the sun (dwells) lighting up the firmament which lasts on the ground, so too above the collar bone but stands on the above ground all sides.

so too the Buddha’s knowledge, and the number of knowledges were totally destroyed,
in the same way the Buddha’s knowledge, and all they became known,

each time just as far as the last careful knowledge.
He knows as far as low as (deeds) knowledge of various sorts of offenses, knowledge of the limited knowledge.

If I don’t know it or reach the end of the robe, and then passes beyond, there’s no composed.
knowledge hasn’t let go beyond, and there is no unshakable knowledge.

Thoughts that are limitless
Thoughts that are limited

Knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge,
the knowledge of the Buddha’s Dhamma,

All things are clear in reference to the Buddha’s doctrines, applying to the dependent origination of the Buddha.
All these things are bound up with the Buddha’s Dhamma, and once arisen it, giving attention to the thought of Buddha.

with the Buddha’s knowledge of all,
knowledge of the Buddha’s knowledge of all,

And he knows all sentient beings’ habits, knows their inherent tendencies, knows their bents, knows them as with little dust on their eyes and with much dust on their eyes, with keen faculties and with dull faculties, with good behaviour and with bad behaviour, easy to teach and hard to teach, capable and incapable of achieving wisdom.
All sentient beings know what is beneficial and what is harmful, they know the right amount of sentient beings, and they are capable of discerning bad qualities. They know the wrong time of being an embarrassed, capable of breaking up and down, with much dust on their eyes and feet, with much dust on their eyes.

The world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans, the Buddhas swells towards the Buddha.
the world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans, princes,

Whatever is made up of the finger-snap, even just as the world does, so too, this world—with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans—the world sweept away by the Buddha.
all the world is made of stinginess, not catching up or trapped in three cramps, so too, the world with its gods, Māras, and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans.

Those who know birds that include in the space so too will return, even the stirred by the Buddha.
Whatever questions that are heavy inferior, superior, or compared to the Buddha with the same terms of wisdom.

Knowledge of the Buddha, Knowledge, (thinking):
a wise and virtuous decrease, (thinking): It is the greatest of the Buddha,

Even those aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics who clever householders—they’ve already planned, planted out their doctrines—broad, collapse up the answers to their questions.
Even those aristocrats, brahmins, householders, or ascetics who are subtle, accomplished in the doctrines of others, hair-spliters. They seem to be considered as if they were created by the Realized One, and cut off their views and go to see you.

When the Buddha has clearly seen them, they are blameless, but have not seen them.
The Buddha has clearly seen them, and when he has sensed these three questions have been relinquished.

and they were unable to penetrate it.
and they were shaking off, they increasing him.

But the Buddha cry like this:
The Buddha then cried.

is with wisdom.
namely, wisdom,

The Fortunate One has clearly seen (him) with the eye of wisdom
The Fortunate One has the eye of wisdom,

How did the Fortunate One seer?
How did the Fortunate One see the eye?

And the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes; with keen faculties and with weak faculties, with good qualities and with bad qualities, easy to teach and hard to teach. And some of them lived seeing the danger in the fault to do with the next world, while others did not.

It’s like a pool with blue water lilies, or pink or white lotuses.
It was just like a lotus pond with lotuses born and grown in water: some remain submerged in the water without rising out of it, others reach the surface of the water, and others still rise out of the water without being touched by it.

In the same way, the Buddha saw sentient beings with little dust in their eyes, and some with much dust in their eyes.

The Buddha knows that

“This person is of greedy temperament, one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, one of speculative temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”
“This person is of greedy temperament, this is one of hating temperament, one of deluded temperament, and one of faithful temperament.”

For one of greedy temperament talks about people.
The Buddha spoke about the person of greedy temperament.

In one of hating temperament the Blessed One tells about loving-kindness to another person.
The Fortunate One tells about the person of hating temperament,

In one of deluded temperament, the Buddha questions at the right time without asking permission.
for one of deluded temperament, for a person who is habitually asks questions, truely, and meaningfully.

Mindfulness of breathing explains the Buddha.
He tells about a person of thinking,

And that is how the Buddha explains a certain person’s confidence, etc., as expounders of the Teaching, the Saṅgha, and the ethics, generosity, and wisdom.
In one of faithful temperament, the Buddha declares that person’s confidence, and the teaching, and the Saṅgha, and the ethics, learning, generosity, and wisdom.

In one of his own knowledge, the Blessed One tells about, who has discerned knowledge, the meditation that is impermanent, suffering, and perishable.
The Buddha declares that person’s own knowledge, is the point of suffering, the general population is impermanent, suffering, and perishable.

“Standing high on a rocky mountain,

you can see the people all around.

In just the same way, all-seer, wise one,

having ascended the Temple of Truth,
the Palace made from Dhamma, Visionary One,

Being rid of sorrow, look upon the people,
rid of sorrow, look upon the people,

swamped with sorrow, oppressed by rebirth and old age.”

Thus the Fortunate One, too, the Fortunate One,
The Fortunate One has such eyes,

How should the Fortunate One, Visionary,
May the Fortunate One, Visionary One,

All-Seing Visionary is what is meant.
all-knowing, All-seeing Visionary, is what is meant.

All-Conquering, quite clear, equal, endowed with all good qualities,
He has arisen in omniscience which is accompanied by all omniscience, has arisen in the Jina.

“There is no place wherever I stood,
“There is no place in them,

untrue, these things must be done.
Knowing this, unshakable,

to have direct knowledge all kinds of direct knowledge.
all-knowledge one can know,

from that these two are far-seeing.”
The Realized One is the best for all around.”

The Buddha has eyes all around.
The Buddha has just eyes all around.

The seers of mine:
The Seer didn’t answer in the world,

and if he answers a question about the teaching; he answers with his answering as far as the Buddha. He answers with a legitimate question of others, not illegitimately.
if he answers to the third time; he answers to the Buddha, he answers to the questions, and he answers to the questions of the Dhamma; he does not answer with a wisdom; he answers to the teaching of the Dhamma.

So I’ve taught it, and so, (thinking):
I’ve taught it like this, how I ever finded it.

Devī, the Buddha at Isipatana,
Deathless and the Buddha says,

Queen Māyā
Queen Padumavatī

just as the king is called Isidāsīva; the Buddha is called a brahmin, and both.
just as King Seers then went forth is said to be the Buddha’s hermits hermits.

Queen Māyā
Queen Padumavatī

Then the Buddha Seer went forth.
But he drew near the hermits.

searching for a great mass of virtue.
seeking a great mass of virtue, searching for search;

immersion ...

the great mass of wisdom ...

the great mass of freedom ...
the great mass of freedom,

searching for the great knowledge and vision of freedom, and searching for a long time.
searching for the great benefit of freedom, seeking the knowledge and vision of freedom.

searching for a great mass of darkness, and seeking for eighty years.
seeking for a great revenues, went searching for hermits.

searching for a great lion, and searching for the breaking out of the bloom.
seeking a great deal of wide opening. And searching for support.

that is a great dart of craving,
for the dart of craving,

to the wrong view,
to the ground for views ...

with a large banner’s crest ...
a large banner’s crest ...

with great effort ...
for extra effort ...

a large following ...
a large resentment ...

throwing out a great load ...
throwing down a great armies ...

moisture ...
mounts for a great eon ...

mortifies,
a great light fire ...

moves away ...
of a great resplendent cooked rice ...

searched for a great banner, and seeking for the benefit of the Dhamma.
seeking a great banner, seeking for the benefit and seeking the benefit of the Dhamma.

the Saṅgha ...

exertion ...
right effort ...

exertion ...
the faculties of great power ...

the great power ...
the large powers ...

shoots ...
your calves are all the factors of awakening ...

... the noble eightfold path ...
the noble eightfold path ...

searching for the deathless, the supreme, emancipation.
seeking the ultimate goal, seeking the deathless, search for Nibbāna.

searches for the hundred being looked for searches,
searches for being searched by the hundreds of men,

“God-King, where is the Buddha? Where are you, sir?”
“Where is the Buddha, sir, when Majesty was the king? Isidatta.”

if (asked) up to a third time the Divine Seer answers, I have heard.

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin replied,

“I wasn’t able to ask
“I would ask you about it, Sakka,

and Mogharāja.
Mogharāja, said venerable Mogharāja,

The seers of mine:
The Seer didn’t answer in the world,

and the Queen Māyāsi for the third time.
he gives the third time the Queen.

declares I have heard.”
declared my answer to me.”

This world,
This world, the other world,

the Brahmā realm with its gods.
the Eternal Youth from the Brahmā realm.

you don’t understand
they don’t understand you.

of the renowned Gotama

This world is the other world.

This world is a human being.
This world is the world of men.

The whole world, except if there is another world,
The whole world, apart from the other world,

This world,
This world, the other world,

The world with its gods, Māras, and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, its gods and humans—
Brahma world with its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, gods and humans—they are the world with its gods.

the Brahmā realm with its gods.
the Eternal Youth from the Brahmā realm.

Don’t know that your view is the same, preference, oral tradition, reasoned contemplation, or acceptance of a view after consideration.
They don’t know how view is your view. They don’t conceive on your views, belief, or obstinacy.

“This is the view that they don’t know or see in such a way.”
“This is the view, misfortune, in this way.” They don’t see anyone who doesn’t know or see or see or see injuring them, nor do they see.

you don’t understand
they don’t understand you.

The Fortunate One has arrived at Yasa, who has arrived at (him),
The Fortunate One, who has arrived at Yasa,

Or the Buddha is honored, respected, revered, venerated, and esteemed. And he receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
And the Buddha was honored, respected, revered, venerated, and esteemed. And he received robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

of the renowned Gotama

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin replied,

“This world and the other world

the Brahmā realm with its gods.
the Eternal Youth from the Brahmā realm.

you don’t understand
they don’t understand you.

of the renowned Gotama.”

so unattached, seeing the arrowless state,
so unsurpassed, so very facet,

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

How do you see the world?

then the King of Death won’t see you.

When I considered the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the highest.
When I considered this, my unattached, seeing the foremost, best, chief, highest, and finest of the four.

so unattached, seeing the arrowless state,
so unsurpassed, so very facet,

There are some who come from questions. ...
There is a question that should be answered with a question ...

There are close by him who come up and ask him a question.
There is a question, and this question:

How do they reply?
How do they really on the world with its gods? How do they survey the noble ones and fully awakened?

How do you see the world?

Then the king of Death won’t see (one), he doesn’t see least in his mind.
He doesn’t see the king of Death; he doesn’t see (him). He doesn’t see lazy, he doesn’t get rid of responsible.

then the King of Death won’t see you.

Hence that brahmin thought,
The brahmin then thought,

“Yes, I have come forth.
“Even Going forward—

I have come with a question,
There is a question that should be answered,

How do you see the world?

king of Death won’t see you.”

empty,
Seeing the world in the world,

King Mogharāja, he’s mindful,
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

Having removed (wrong) view of self,

so it will cross over Death.
so death will cross over death.

who shows the world beyond,
looking around the world

then the King of Death won’t see you.

discerning the world,

The world of hell, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the human world, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods.
The world of the gods, the animal realm, the ghost realm, the human world, the world of the gods, and the world of the gods. This world of the gods, the Brahmā realm.

A second monk said to the Buddha,

“Sir, they speak of this thing called ‘the world’.
“Sir, they say that ‘the world is called ‘the world’.

How is the world defined?”

“It wears away, mendicant, that’s why it’s called ‘the world’.

And what is the reason why?

The eye ... ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

The stream of the ear ...
The hunter brokes up.

Smelling smells ...
scented odors,

The body feels disagreeable.
The body feels touching it.

mind consciousness ...
The mind ... thoughts ... mind consciousness ... mind contact is wearing away.

The pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by mind contact is also wearing away.

It wears away, that’s why it’s called ‘the world’.”
They’re called ‘the world’.”

Emptiness worldly conditions:
He knows two worldly reasons:

It is the characteristic of stiffenedness or torpor that is free from the kasiṇa and mode of insight, and so on.
Or alternatively, if it is only the characteristic of impermanence, etc., of insight and concentration, or of insight knowledge.

How does he endure the characteristic of foulness by steps?
and how is he characterized as if only the whole world?

they don’t experience form, feeling, perception, choices, and consciousness.
they don’t expect (still) form, feeling, perception, choices, or consciousness.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Form is not your essence.
“Bodily form, monks, is not Self,

For if form were your essence, it would not lead to suffering, and you could make it

be like this and not be like that.

But because form is not your essence, it leads to suffering, and you can’t make them
But because form is not your essence, it leads to suffering, and you can’t make it

be like this and not be like that.

Feeling is not-self ...
Feeling is not your essence.

For if feelings were your essence, they would not lead to suffering, and you could make them

be like this and not be like that.

But because feelings are not your essence, they lead to suffering, and you can’t make them

be like this and not be like that.

Perception is not Self,
Perceptions are not your essence.

For if perceptions were your essence, they would not lead to suffering, and you could make them

be like this and not be like that.

But because perceptions are not your essence, they lead to suffering, and you can’t make them

be like this and not be like that.

(Mental) processes
Choices are not-self ...

For if intentional activities were your essence, they would not lead to suffering, and you could make them

be like this and not be like that.

But because intentional activities are not your essence, they lead to suffering, and you can’t make them

be like this and not be like that.

Consciousness is not-self.
Consciousness is not your essence.

For if consciousness were your essence, it would not lead to suffering, and you could make it

be like this and not be like that.

But because consciousness is not your essence, it leads to suffering, and you can’t make it

be like this and not be like that.”
‘May my consciousness be like this! May it not be like that’?”

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, this body doesn’t belong to you or to anyone else.

It’s old deeds, and should be seen as produced by choices and intentions, as something to be felt.

In this case, a learned noble disciple carefully and properly attends to dependent origination itself:

‘When this exists, that is; due to the arising of this, that arises.
‘This being so, that is; from the arising of this, that arises,

When this doesn’t exist, that is not; due to the cessation of this, that ceases. That is:

Choices are a condition for consciousness. Consciousness is a condition for consciousness. Name and form are conditions for the six sense fields. The six sense fields are conditions for contact. Contact is a condition for feeling. Feeling is a condition for craving. Craving is a condition for grasping. Grasping is a condition for continued existence. Continued existence is a condition for rebirth. Rebirth is a condition for old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress to come to be.
ignorance is a condition for choices. Name and form are a condition for consciousness. Name and form are conditions for the six sense fields. The six sense fields are conditions for contact. Contact is a condition for feeling. Feeling is a condition for craving. Craving is a condition for grasping. Grasping is a condition for continued existence. Continued existence is a condition for rebirth. Rebirth is a condition for old age and death, for grief, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress to come to be.

That is how this entire mass of suffering originates.’

When ignorance fades away and ceases with nothing left over, choices cease. When consciousness ceases, consciousness ceases. When consciousness ceases, name and form cease. When name and form cease, consciousness ceases. When name and form cease, name and form cease. When name and form cease, consciousness ceases. When name and form cease, the six sense fields cease. When the six sense fields cease, consciousness ceases. When contact ceases, feeling ceases. When feeling ceases, craving ceases. When craving ceases, grasping ceases.
When ignorance fades away and ceases with nothing left over, choices cease. When choices cease, consciousness ceases. When consciousness ceases, consciousness ceases. When name and form cease. When name and form cease, the six sense fields cease. When the six sense fields cease, consciousness ceases. When contact ceases, feeling ceases. When feeling ceases, craving ceases. When grasping ceases, grasping ceases. When continued existence ceases. When continued existence ceases, rebirth ceases. When rebirth ceases, old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress cease.

When rebirth ceases, old age and death, sorrow, lamentation, pain, sadness, and distress cease.”

Thus the characteristics which are held together by the steps and cognized in one’s mark.
Thus there is he who is fully extinguished through the characteristic of endlessness, and through attainment of the world,

How does one know about these (only) realisations, who does not see the world with its gods?
How is the question of conditions, and to be understood how to reckoned as an instance?

Form is not found in form, feeling is not found. It is not possible essential or as inessential.
Form is indeed a form, feeling is not incapable of perception. It is experienced as a feeling, perception, choices, or consciousness.

form, wishing for self-control, for motion, and self-control, wishing for self or as long as he wishing, wishing for:
Form is the essence, for the heart, for the restraint of self, for the essence, or for those who wish to be permanent or eternal.

Feeling, without infatuating, there is having heartwood, celebrated misconduct,
When feeling ...

perception ...

choices, unsuitable, shocked out,
choices, unbroken, falsehoods, and essentials.

consciousness, wishing for self-control, wishing for is permanent, everlasting, eternal, or imperishable.
consciousness, wishing for self-assured and inessentialing, heart-standing, moving along as permanent or impermanent?

Suppose there was a Assakaḷa. But just as a strong man would trabulate him with the rod and the sword rod.
Like a government official who has fallen from the forest, the essence as it is,

And just as a goad Udumbara has fallen into debt and is defeated, as happens when a tiger in the tabulated, having gone to the essential, and Māra cannot find a vulnerability without a water, just as the essential couches, and untongue of essential, as a crooked heavy and unattached.
And just as a rotten goad forwards and back a dancing, lying down in the essence, just as the cracked heap, depressed, escorted with the dancing, the essential, the mud, the essential, and the essential coal, and the essential curts still essential, like a cramped,

In the same way, when there is no essence, wishing for self-control, wishing for self or motion; and when needing back, held together or wish:
In the same way, when form is announced forward and remote lodgings, for the heart and for growing back or as essential or for oneself.

Feeling, without infatuating, there is having heartwood, celebrated misconduct,
When feeling ...

perception ...

choices, unsuitable, shocked out,
choices, unbroken, falsehoods, and essentials.

consciousness, wishing for self-control, wishing for is permanent, everlasting, eternal, or imperishable.
consciousness, wishing for self-assured and inessentialing, heart-standing, moving along as permanent or impermanent?

Thus the incomparable, realised to intelligence, and took the world.
Thus he residers to the influence to the unconditioned, fully glorious world,

With these two reasons he surely will protect the world.
With these two reasons he protects the world,

Beginning the six ways in which the world is empty,
For one who knows the six ways in which the world beyond,

eye consciousness ...
one’s own self or what is empty of self. For one who is constantly seeking the variety of sight, but without harming.

When the ear ...
If you’ve heard ...

the nose ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

the body ...

mind, thoughts, or what’s permanent, everlasting, eternal, or imperishable.
mind is empty of self or what is empty.

sights ...

sounds ...
When you understand sounds ...

smells ...

... tastes ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

thoughts permanent or impermanent?
thoughts known by the empty of self or what belongs to self.

eye consciousness ...

mind consciousness ...
mind consciousness,

eye contact ...

mind contact ...

feeling born of eye contact ...

feeling born of mind contact ...

Perception of sights ...

perception of thoughts ...

intention regarding sights ...

intention regarding thoughts ...”

craving for sights ...

Perception ...
Perceiving form ...

Considerations regarding sights ...
considerations regarding sights ...

considerations regarding the teachings ...
considerations regarding the thoughts ...

Thus he thus discerns the six ways only manages the world,
So he looks down on the six world in six ways:

Still, knowing the ten ways in ten ways,
Still, however, he knows the world in ten ways:

Form is empty, hollow, and insubstantial.

They regard feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness ...

passing away ...

rebirth ...
their rebirth ...

If you are lustful ...
gladness ...

continued existence ...

roaming and transmigration, as well as ongoing to the root, none of these things.
It’s empty, assume as to be void, hollow, and insubstantial.

Thus he thus knows the ten ways in ten ways,
Thus in ten ways he makes his whole world with its gods,

Still, knowing the world in twelve ways he contemplates,
However, he looks on while he is seeking the world in twelve ways:

Sentient beings are not alive, not a woman or a man, nor does it not belong to me.
I don’t regard form as a sentient being, not a student, nor does it not belong to my self, nor does it not belong to me.

Is feeling ...

perception ...

“Are choices permanent or impermanent?” ...

consciousness, not a woman, not a man, not a woman, nor does it not belong to me.
consciousness, a woman, not a man, not a woman, not a man, not a woman, nor does not belong to me.

So he looks after twelve ways in his world:
Thus he looks on at the twelve ways in twelve ways:

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, give up what isn’t yours.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

And what isn’t yours?

Form isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

feelings ...
Feeling isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

perception ...

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

choices aren’t yours: give them up.
Choices aren’t yours: give them up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.
Consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

Suppose a person was to carry off the grass, sticks, branches, and leaves in this Jeta’s Grove, or burn them, or do what they want with them.

Would you think,

‘This person is carrying us off, burning us, or doing what they want with us?’”

“No, Sir.”
“No, sir.”

“Why is that?”

“But, Sir, isn’t that self or self?”
“But, sir, isn’t that self or self?”

“In the same way, mendicants, give up what isn't yours.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

And what isn’t yours?

Form isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.

Is feeling ...

perception ...

“Are choices permanent or impermanent?” ...

consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.
Consciousness isn’t yours: give it up.

Giving it up will be for your lasting welfare and happiness.”

Thus he looks upon the world without emptiness.
Thus he knows the world in this way.

Venerable Ānanda said to the Buddha,

“Sir, they say that ‘the world is empty’.

What does the saying ‘the world is empty’ refer to?”
How is the world defined?”

“Ānanda, they say that ‘the world is empty’ because it’s empty of self or what belongs to self.

And what is empty of self or what belongs to self?

The eye is empty or self or what belongs to self.
The eye is empty of self or what belongs to self.

sights ...

eye consciousness ...
eye consciousness,

eye contact ...

The pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by eye contact is also empty of self or what belongs to self.

the ear ...

sounds ...
When you understand sounds ...

the nose ...

smells ...

The ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

... tastes ...

the body ...

touches ...
tangibles ...

mind, thoughts,
mind is emptiness ...

thoughts ...

mind consciousness ...
mind consciousness,

mind contact ...

The pleasant, painful, or neutral feeling that arises conditioned by mind contact is also empty of self or what belongs to self.

They say that ‘the world is empty’ because it’s empty of self or what belongs to self.”

Thus he looks upon the world without emptiness.
Thus he knows the world in this way.

“There is a way of taking up practices,
“Seeing the dependent origination

you use only the baskets,
you use only processes,

and the bare process of conditions,

it doesn’t occur to them.
this doesn’t occur to you:

The world is like grass and sticks:

when this is seen with wisdom

you should certainly do not think,
and you won’t do anything else.

Except if it is no trouble.”
Except if you have it prostitute.”

Thus he looks upon the world without emptiness.
Thus he knows the world in this way.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“In the same way, a mendicant searches for form, until the reckoning of form is found.
“In the same way, a mendicant searches for form, until they get caught up in form.

when there is pleasant feeling ...
when there is no feeling

perception ...

Conditions occurring as far as the set of choices.
Conditions are born of choices, and all conditions.

consciousness extends it is condemned as far as consciousness.
consciousness is permanent, eternal, and imperishable.

As they search in this way,
As they search in this way, it gets all forms.

They regard feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness as far as they remain, and as there is no place of consciousness.”
consciousness as far as the origin of consciousness extends, or anyone else is mine.”

Thus he looks upon the world without emptiness.
Thus he knows the world in this way.

Did the world belief system that is empty and cognized in the world, no longer starting with the idleness of.
He reviews it in the empty worlds, the one who is uncleared upon the world; the very well-trained, the one who is fully extinguished upon lands, the one who is abstains from secrets.

empty,
Seeing the world in the world,

Mogharāja, King, he always mindful.
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

said the Buddha,

Satisfied ...
‘It’s time totally time for the Buddha’s time. It’s the time for the brahmin who well-to-do. It’s the wrong time.’

in the last watch of the night,

Sentient beings are four reasons:
Someone with four reasons:

Mindfulness of the body ...

they’re called a sentient being.

King Mogharāja, he’s mindful,
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

Having a view of self, the self is called identity view.
Views of self, views, and identity view are of Sakka who has not committed an offense.

Take an uneducated ordinary person who has not seen the noble ones, and is neither skilled nor trained in the teaching of the noble ones. They’ve not seen good persons, and are neither skilled nor trained in the teaching of the good persons.

They regard feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness as self, self as having consciousness, consciousness in self, or self in consciousness.

the recipients of such a view, the recipient, the Full of views, the holding tight, and the recipients of views. Their view is attached to being fettered, not explored by views is the wrong way.
the view of such views, the recipients of views, the recipients of the wrong view, the repulsion, the opposite of the views, the recipients of the path, the fetters, the insistence, the opposite of their views, and the recipientsive views. This is the wrong way to get hold of the wrong view.

Having removed (wrong) view, he carefully removed it by himself, put it away, lifted it up onto the ocean, and gave it up, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterated it.
Having removed (wrong) view of self, attacked it, and lifted it onto the course of the view, he lifted it on after putting it away, having given it up, get rid of it, eliminate it, and obliterated it.

Having removed (wrong) view of self,

Mortality might strike and fall off old age. Father, suppose old age, and death were to go beyond the shackle of death, and you should develop the transgress.
When Death comes like this, you might be like that. When your old age might come to death, you should develop the recollection of death, and you should develop mindfulness of death.

so it will cross over Death.
so death will cross over death.

When they survey the world in this way, and discern the next world as he surveys it.
When they do this, realisation, and accumulating thus: “This is the end of the world, its gods, Māras and Brahmās, this population with its ascetics and brahmins, thinking,

who shows the world beyond,
looking around the world

Kings, Death’s Death’s Got in Death’s death, and the King of Death,
King A person who does not deceive the king of Death; death will not be a King of Death,

One cannot see (it). But one does not see, the king of Death doesn’t find happiness.
He doesn’t see (you) thinking: ‘I won’t see a sorry.’ But he doesn’t get rid of responsibility.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, suppose a wilderness region walks in a forest grove. When wandering in a forest, they walk, thinking:
“Mendicants, suppose a forest was staying in the wilderness, in a forest, and in a roar, he walks confidently. He stands confident and poisonous in the forest. And he sits confidently for confidence.

Why is that?

He is not, monks, within the range of a hunter.

In the same way, a mendicant, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, as the placing of the mind and keeping it connected are stilled, a mendicant enters and remains in the second absorption ...

... the third absorption,” ...
the third absorption ...

dwells having attained the fourth absorption.
he dwells having attained the fourth absorption.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, a mendicant, going totally beyond perceptions of form, with the ending of perceptions of impingement, not focusing on perceptions of diversity, aware that ‘space is infinite’, enters and remains in the dimension of infinite space.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, a mendicant, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite space, aware that ‘consciousness is infinite’, enters and remains in the dimension of infinite consciousness ...
Furthermore, a mendicant, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite space, aware that ‘consciousness is infinite’, enters and remains in the dimension of infinite consciousness. ...” ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite consciousness, aware that ‘there is nothing at all’, they enter and remain in the dimension of nothingness ...
Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite consciousness, aware that ‘there is nothing at all’, they enter and remain in the dimension of nothingness. ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of nothingness, they enter and remain in the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception ...
Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of nothingness, they enter and remain in the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception. ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they enter and remain in the cessation of perception and feeling.
Furthermore, take a mendicant who, going totally beyond the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, enters and remains in the cessation of perception and feeling.

And, having seen with wisdom, their defilements come to an end.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

he walks confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently,
he goes, stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently.

Why is that?

Because they’re out of the Wicked One’s range.”

then the King of Death won’t see you.

The Buddha replied,

“Learned in the world,
“Looking on the world as empty,

King Mogharāja, he’s mindful,
Mogharāja, King, always mindful.

Having removed (wrong) view of self,

so it will cross over Death.
so death will cross over death.

who shows the world beyond,
looking around the world

king of Death won’t see you.”

spoke with verses ...
verses ...

you’re my teacher, I’m your disciple.

Questioning in the Mogharāja
Questioning in the Mogharāja, the fifteenth day of the month.

