Cūḷaniddesa

Khaggavisāṇasuttaniddesa

1. Paṭhamavagga

having laid aside violence towards all creatures—
and has put aside the stick

don’t even change their enemies.
and even a single one of them.

earned by his companions,
A man should not wish to deceive his friends,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

having laid aside violence towards all creatures—
and has put aside the stick

Everyone who has nothing, all that is terms of praise.”
all that is called a particular residence under all.

Everyone cooks:
Everyone gets all.

these are called “demon” because they are (all) creatures, “friend”, and “ they are jealous of him”.
Since they are type of creatures, they are called “friends”;

Abandoning for those who gladness, they haven’t given up craving, transgressed of fear,
Those who delight in wretched states of existence, having not given up craving and hate,

what is the reason why they are called.

They are called horrified, resplendent, and blazing.
They praise the mortification in mind, and they blaming and ruining their carpets.

Rather, there should be some who, being given up craving, get rid of fear, and terror,
Remembering the craving he has given up craving and has given up that fear of rebirth.

they are called ‘known’.
These are the reasons to learn.

They don’t raising the senses, they’re not disparaged and are not confident and they respond.
They don’t neglect a mortification; they don’t blazing and rugging, and they’re called a falling downfall.

Three kinds of punishment:
There are three kinds of staff:

body, speech, and mind.
Potector, decorated with the body,

three kinds of bad bodily conduct, verbal, and mental conduct.
by body, speech, and mind, and these three kinds of misconduct.

having laid aside violence towards all creatures—

descending down from the cry and bind them away, they all deposed down on the bed.
descending into the lake, having put down his staff, put down his staff, and laid down on the ground.

all of them mendicants, caught up with fists, stones, rods, or swords.
all of them stones, sticks, and swords strikes them with fists, stones, rods, or swords.

don’t even change their enemies.
and even a single one of them.

A man will not wish to choose his sons,
A man should not wish for a child,

neither dissipate nor too.
neither long nor impingement.

Four children:

son of the world, the son of a son, was given to him.
the son of a son, a son of the bondservant,

When someone passes away within their carpenters, ~ who come comfortably, there’s a comfortable rainy season, comfortable ribly, in comfort, and comfortable.
Standing together with any of the companions, there will be a comfortable (interu) going for refuge. It’s comfortable and comfortable for sitting on the walking-path, which is an comfortable (interval.)

He wouldn’t want to have his children or wife or his property. He wouldn’t consent to food brought to them, or drink alcohol, or bathe with friends and colleagues, relatives and kin.
One should not consent to a child, even though they want to bathe, anoint him, one would not consent to food, drink, clothes, or beds. They wouldn’t consent to food brought to him, or to friendship.

earned by his companions,
A man should not wish to deceive his friends,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string,
One should wander alone, with a tiger trunk,

One Independently, one Independent Sambuddha who had gone forth, one of the Paccekabuddhas, and one ends. One was free of greed, hate, and delusion remains unshakable and twenty.
one solitary retreat, one gone forth, and one was not free of greed, hate, and delusion. One was not exhausted by one, with no yokes, one yokes, and one yoked with the supreme perfect awakening, one yoke of the supreme path, one with a perfect happiness.

How was one Independent Sambuddha, after going forth through the air, one completely understood?
How is one Independent Buddhas going forth through the air?

So that’s what he did.
After cutting off the crown of hatred, the Independent Buddhas, having cut off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.

Thus when one Independent Sambuddha, without going forth, was one visited by a Buddha
Thus after one Independent Buddhas, one gone forth through the air

How am I one Independent Sambuddha?
How is it one Independent Buddha awakened for themselves?

When they’ve gone forth they frequent remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He proceeds alone, and concentrates on walking for alms.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down in private alone; he walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone; he walks alone, and concentrates on walking mindfully; he walks alone; he walks alone; he walks alone, returns alone, and concentrates on the village.

In this way one Independent Perfectly Awakened
So it is with one Independent Sambuddha at the head of the Independent Buddhas.

How is that Independent Perfectly Awakened One, who was liberated by craving,
How is one Independent Sambuddha on the Paccekabuddhas, who was liberated through the air?

So that’s what he did.
When they live alone withdrawn, diligent, keen, and resolute, they don’t give up craving. They’re plained by Māra and Brahmā, and make an end of craving.

“Craving is a person’s partner

as they transmigrate on this long journey.

They go from this state to another,
their coming and going,

but don’t escape transmigration.

Knowing this danger,
Knowing this danger

that craving is the cause of suffering—

Rid of craving, free of grasping,

to give up desire for rebirth.
to give up sensual desire.

In this way the Independent Sambuddha, after giving up craving, another craving was given up.
So it is one Independent Sambuddha, an Independent Buddha, and one was given up by craving.

How was one Independent Sambuddha, who was free from passion, and one free from passion (to another)?
How was one Independent Sambuddha who was free from passions?

When greed has been given up, one is completely given up, one who has given up greed, hate, and delusion.
When they’ve given up greed, hate, and delusion have given them up, one with a deluded mind.

In this way the Independent Buddha Paccekabuddha was one free from passion,
So it is one Independent Sambuddha who is free from passion,

One Independent Sambuddha went by himself
One Independent Sambuddha, how is one path gone to another?

the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.
four kinds of mindfulness meditation are called the four right efforts.

“The compassionate one, who sees the utter ending of rebirth,

understands the path to convergence.

By this path people crossed over before,

will cross over, and are crossing over.”

In this way one Independent Perfectly Awakened One came alone,
Soon the Independent Buddha came to one road.

How was one Independent Sambuddha awakened for the supreme perfect awakening?
How is one Independent Sambuddha awakened for the supreme perfect awakening?

Bodhisatta, is knowledge of path,
the knowledge of the four paths and the paths of Awakening.

wisdom, the Faculty of Wisdom, the Strength of Effort, and right view.
wisdom, the Faculty of Wisdom, the Strength of Wisdom, Right View, Right view, and right thought.

One Independent Perfectly Awakened One, a Buddha awakened for themselves, is knowledge of impermanence.
The Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves; they discovered it independently, wise.

All conditions are suffering—

All things are not-self—

in ignorance.
“Ignorance is a condition for choices.”

choices are conditions for consciousness.
“With (volitional) processes a condition for consciousness?”

consciousness is a condition for name and form.

“With mind as condition and body: the six sense-spheres are conditions for awakening.”
“With mind and bodily form as condition: the six sense spheres,”

the six sense fields are a condition for contact.
“‘The six sense fields are a condition for contact.’—

“Contact is a condition for feeling.”

“Feeling is a condition for craving.”

“Craving is a condition for grasping”.
“Craving is a condition for grasping.”

“Grasping is a condition for continued existence.”

with continued existence as condition:
“Continued existence is a condition for rebirth.”

he is a condition for old age and death.

When ignorance ceases, choices cease.”
“Ignorance ceases, choices cease.”

When choices cease, consciousness ceases.
“With the cessation of consciousness, the cessation of consciousness.”

“Consciousness ceases when consciousness ceases, name and form cease.”
with the cessation of consciousness, the cessation of mind and bodily-consciousness.

“When name and form cease, the six sense fields cease.”
“With the cessation of mind and bodily form, the six sense spheres ceased,”

When the six sense fields cease, contact ceases.”
When the six sense fields cease, contact ceases.

“Contact ceases when contact ceases, feeling ceases.”
“Contact ceases, feeling ceases.”

When feeling ceases, craving ceases.

“Craving ceases, grasping ceases.”

“Do you see that when grasping ceases continued existence ceases rebirth ceases?”
“Do you see the cessation of grasping?”

“Cessation, the cessation of continued existence is born.”
“Continued existence ceases, rebirth ceases.”

When rebirth ceases, old age and death cease.
“Painful is the cessation of old age and death.”

wandering about suffering,
“This is suffering.”

“This is the origin of suffering”,

“This is the cessation of suffering”,
“This is the cessation of suffering.”

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering”.
“This is the practice going to the cessation of suffering”,

“These are defilements.”
“These are the defilements by body;”

“This is the origin of defilements” ...

“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of pollutants.”
“This is the practice that leads to the cessation of defilements”.

“These things should be directly known.”
“These things have been directly known.”

“These things should be given up by them.”
“These things are to be given up by them.”

“These things should be realized.”

“These things should be developed.”

the six fields of contact’s origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.
the six fields of contact origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

the origin and ending of the five grasping aggregates.
the origin of the five grasping aggregates, encourages, fires up, and inspires confidence in the heart ...

the four primary elements’ origin, ending, gratification, drawback, and escape.

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

Or discovered, you should realize the supreme culmination of contact. And they should know that contact to be experienced as wake up through the ending of defilements.
Or one woke upwards, considers, beat, and circumstances should be realized. He should go to the supreme end of the spiritual path. He wake up to the Buddha, the Teaching, and the Sangha of monks. He woke to realize the supreme awakening in this way.

eko.

And eight kinds of conduct:
Eight conduct is eightfold by way of conduct.

By posture, conduct, mindfulness, immersion, and knowledge, and meditation, the benefit of the world.
By postures, conduct, mindfulness, immersion, and knowledge, and practice, the teachers of the world.

the four ways of conduct,
and the four ways of conduct.

in the six internal and external sense-spheres?
in the six internal and external sense-spheres.

and the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.
In the four ways of attending to mindfulness,

In the four absorptions:
In the four absorptions, concentration is the absorption in the four absorptions.

of the four noble truths,
In the four noble truths,

In the path of the noble ones,
In the four noble paths;

In the four kinds of ascetic life there are fruits of the ascetic life.
In the four kinds of conduct included by the ascetic life;

Whereas: amongst Buddhas, Perfect Sambuddhas, in the Paṭisambhidā, the Perfect Sambuddhas have been taught by the Perfect Sambuddhas,
As regards the world: among those beginning with Buddhas, the Perfect Sambuddhas, the disciples of Buddhas awakened for themselves;

the Ways of Posture, acting astonishing,
the Ways of Postures, conduct,

guarding the sense doors and sense doors,
live with the sense-spheres, guarding the sense-spheres,

Lack of mindfulness and awareness,
Lack of mindfulness and situational awareness.

by means of higher mind, and mental conduct,
and the higher mind.

Buddhas and knowledge,
and perfect knowledge,

practicing the path,
conduct is practicing the path,

I’ve attained the fruit of all good deeds.
I’ve attained the fruit of deeds that brings about what is suitable.

There were disciples of the Realized Ones, the perfected ones, the fully awakened Buddhas who taught in this way taught by his disciples,
The Realized Ones, the perfected ones, the fully awakened Buddhas who teach their disciples regarding Buddhas.

These are the eight kinds of conduct.
These are the eight ways of conduct.

Another eight kinds of service:
Another eight conduct:

Detaches and faithful,
endures faith and faith:

By inclining to energy,
if he makes it worse and energy;

is attending for mindfulness and mindful,
He is mindful, and he is mindful,

By distracting, they become familiar with immersion.
thus showing that concentration is undistracted.

knowing with wisdom,
knowing their own wisdom,

through examining consciousness and shamelessness.
Transmigrating through consciousness,

When you see this, skillful qualities arise:
When you’re practicing like this, skillful qualities arise:

and sense-doorspheres.
who lives off the sense fields and conduct,

In this way they achieve rough ground.
One who practices in line with the teaching.

Independent conduct,
vii.

These are the eight kinds of conduct.
These are the eight ways of conduct.

Another eight kinds of service:
Another eight conduct:

taking care of vision and right view,
and right view,

Right thought and right speech: right thought.
and right thought, right speech, right action, right livelihood,

possessing principled and moral conduct,
possessiveness, and right speech,

Consequently, and right action,
Embracing your action and conduct,

Suppose your livelihood and right livelihood
It’s your right livelihood, and right livelihood,

and even-workers.
and even-working and decaying.

and mindfulness established,
and right mindfulness, and right mindfulness,

eye-distraction, and right immersion.
and non-violence concentration through right immersion.

These are the eight kinds of conduct.
These are the eight ways of conduct.

As the simile of the tip of the bitter smooth, the Independent of the sacred flame, the Independent Buddhas were friendly, and without the head independent.
his name was tiny.

As a poral salt is what is meant.
Just as one who has not made of salt is what is meant.

excrement is what is meant.
exclusively: what is meant is that shelter.

a sweet voice is what is meant.
it is the sweetest of the honey-balls.

It is what is meant.
made from fire is what is meant.

too late in the Himalayas,
the shaven is what is meant.

It is what is meant.
It is what is meant by the waves is called the ocean.

having attained great insight, having attained perfection and consummation,
having attained great insight, is what is meant by the Teacher.

So too, the Independent Buddhas goes alone, but only one is preserved.
In the same way, when one Independent Buddhas relies on it, he lives alone in the world with its gods.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“I’ve laid aside violence towards all creatures—

don’t even change their enemies.
and even a single one of them.

earned by his companions,
let one not wish for a child, how should their friend,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

of birth and death.
The born of existence has arisen in an end.

This is the fear of suffering,
This is the breaking of suffering,

seeing the danger in being dissatisfied,
seeing the danger in being dissatisfaction,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

They lead to heaven.
The Heavens birth and inception.

Two on transmigrations.
Contact.

seeing the best and hearing,
Seeing the best sight, the best.

What is the best seeing?
What is the best sight?

It’s when someone sees a woman or man, including a beautiful complexion.
It’s when someone sees a woman or man, inclining a girl who is attractive, good-looking, lovely, of surpassing beauty.

If he sees that the signs of a hermaphrodite, saying,
When he saw him, he grabbed the sign,

the poison, the wound, the ear, the nose, the tongue, the body, and the air.
the head hair, the dart, the lips, the mouth, the nose, the tongue, the body, the head, the ear, the nose, the neck, the face, the face, the belly, the wound, the tail, the tail, the mouth, the nose, the tongue, the body, the head, the ploughs, the lungs, the face, the poison, the wiel, the poison, the hrases, or the ears, the nose, the tongue, the body hairs, head hairs, head hairs, ears, nose and body hairs.

Seeing this, they look after them, and they’re attracted to desire them.
Seeing this, they look forward to enjoying sensual pleasures, and because of their bondage.

This is the best seeing.

What is the best sound?

It may be that someone hears

“In such and such a village or town there’s a women or a girl who is attractive, good-looking, lovely, of surpassing beauty.”

When he hears this, he approves, welcomes them with no greed. But they’re not attracted to desire.
When you hear this, you keep clinging to them, you’re bound by greed.

This is the best of hearing.
this is the best listener.

There are two kinds of curry:
There are two kinds of bathing:

Craving, and craving for views,
Craving for craving and view.

What’s the corruption of craving?
What is the starting point of craving?

From the first craving that was fixed, made up, made up, and performed, sought and limited
From the limit of craving that was fixed in the same way as before, soon as the limit of craving has been performed,

this is my definition for me:
This is mine, this is my mine:

Sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. It’s neck, bandits, plunges into the town and country, and the capital cities and countries influences of elephants and horses, bandits and cows, and countries. It’s in that country and craving at the foot of a village.
My father-spheres, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts of the servants. They are all elephants, horses, bandits, tip-cat, drawing straws, and chickens, and elephants and horses, bandits, or vassals and cows, goats and sheeps, chickens and quails; that are all the whole villages of towns, towns, towns and capital citys for the Komuses, and countries.

This is the ending of craving.
This is the stem of craving.

What is to be seen?
What is the defiled in view?

The ten kinds of identity view, ten kinds of objects, twenty-two taken away from the objects of identity view,
Ten grounds for identity views, ten bases of identity view, ten bases, twenty-two kinds of wrong view.

the recipients of such a view, the recipient, the Fetter, the holding views, the recipient in the lower realm, the opposite sex, the robes, the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong view, and the sixty.
the view of such views, the recipients, the recipients of views, the recipients of the wrong view, the repulsion, the opportunity, the recipients of views, the recipients. From this view gives rise to wrong view. Dependent transmigration, the opposite of the views.

This is the ground for view.

Birth is born of mortality. Craving for existence is a condition for rebirth. Grasping is a condition for rebirth. And craving for continued existence is a condition for rebirth.
The born of rebirth is born in heaven; the fire produced in seeing shows that they are a condition for rebirth, old age, and death.

of birth and death.
The born of existence has arisen in an end.

This is the kind of suffering that transcends suffering.
This is the breaking of suffering.

The two kinds of customs station:
Leavesd their curry:

Craving, affection, and thirst.
Craving, affection, infatuation, thirst, and craving for views ...

This is the ending of craving.

This is the ground for view.

It’s suffering that some people do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They get rid of these things.
It’s when someone does bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They do bad things by way of body, speech, and mind. They kill living creatures, steal, commit sexual misconduct, lie, or use alcoholic drinks that cause negligence.

The king would present him, saying,
The king, arrested him and present him,

“Your Majesty, this is a bandit,
“Your Majesty, this is a bandit, a criminal.

Punish him as you will.”

The king follows him, saying:

full of pain and sadness.
And he experiences pain and sadness because of grief.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

The King’s men executed him
The king and his men

if he is bound by belts, by constricting with a rope, by constricting with shackles, by constricting with chains, by constricting to a city, by constricting to a village, by constricting to a town, by being guarded, or by choice.
Iing with a belt constricting with shackles, by constricting with shackles, by constricting with chains, by constricting to a house, by constricting to a city, by constricting to a village, by constricting to a town, by being guarded.

“We can’t.”
“It’s not possible to depart.”

They experience pain and sadness because of the bond.
They experience pain and sadness because of hatred.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

The king tells him to take it away.
The King takes the money and says,

or a hundred thousand, or a hundred thousand,
or a hundred thousand things;

And they experience pain and sadness because of that he experiences pain and sadness.
And he experiences pain and sadness because of that he experiences pain and sadness.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

the King will not even give you the same.
Even the King had the same way.

The rulers would arrest them and subject them to various punishments—

The keys, the palms, the hands, and the drunk lotus bubbles, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘garland of fire’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘grass blades’, the ‘bark dress’, the ‘antelope’, the ‘meat hook’, the ‘coins’, the ‘caustic pickle’, the ‘twisting bar’, the ‘straw mat’; being splashed with hot oil, being fed to the dogs, being impaled alive, and being beheaded.
The whipping sunn heats, cuts his hands, or feet, or both; the ‘shell-sticks’, the ‘shell-shave’, the ‘shell-shave’, the ‘demon’s mouth’, the ‘garland of fire’, the ‘burning hand’, the ‘grasss blades’, the ‘bark dress’, the ‘antelope’, the ‘meat hook’, the ‘coins’, the ‘caustic pickle’, the ‘twisting bar’, the ‘straw mat’; being splashed with hot oil, being fed to the dogs, being impaled alive, and being impaled.

And they experience pain and sadness because of that.
And because of that deed he experiences pain and sadness because of the earlier life.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

These are the four rods of the kings,
These are the four Kings, the lord of the earth,

When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.
But when their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.

The wardens of hell punish them with the five-fold crucifixion.
Then the wardens of hell punish them with the five-fold crucifixion.

They drive red-hot stakes through the hands and feet, and another in the middle of the chest.

And there they suffer painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings.
And there they suffer painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings—

But when they die, they don’t make bad karma.
And so the bad deeds don’t die until that bad deed is eliminated.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

Then the wardens of hell throw them down and hack them with axes. ...

They hang them upside-down and hack them with hatchets. ...

They harness them to a chariot, and drive them back and forth across burning ground, blazing and glowing. ...

They make them climb up and down a huge mountain of burning coals, blazing and glowing. ...

Then the wardens of hell turn them upside down and throw them in a red-hot copper pot, burning, blazing, and glowing.

There he boards up to the blades,
He boards the spot:

There they’re seared in boiling scum, and they’re swept up and down and round and round.

And there they suffer painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings.
And there they suffer painful, sharp, severe, acute feelings—

But when they die, they don’t make a bad deed.
And so the bad deeds don’t die until that bad deed is eliminated.

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

Then the wardens of hell toss them into the Great Hell.

Now, about that Great Hell:

‘Four are its corners, four its doors,

neatly divided in equal parts.

Surrounded by an iron wall,

dissipately,
is not venerated by the Buddha,

The ground is even made of iron,

it burns with fierce fire.

The heat forever radiates

a hundred leagues around.’

miserly far away, with tusks and birds,
The wife though is fair, song,

like a flame.
for the sake of birth and death.

hair and body,
metality and body,

in fear and dread,
that’s the point of getting suffering.

and although the Eastern wall
and although the East of the East

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

and thought,
pregnant,

and later.
and spring up by the west.

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

the first rains residence.
(They reflect):

to the southern wall.
to the offering;

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

and relying on the supreme.
and goes on the northern quarter.

and fearing north.

Still the flames of destroyer
Strong down to the flame,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

due to a religious donation.
you’re worthy of a religious donation.

the lower (in return),
above, below, and all around;

The conceited, arrogant fool,
has gone out, fear,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

and no-one else will consider that
and you look for six things:

Six Drawbacks

The conceited, arrogant fool,
has gone out, fear,

Surrounded by wicked deeds,
Stilling wicked deeds,

and destroys irrewing around.
of accumulating truth,

Their Book of the goals
The Book of the Aggressiveness

like a burning flame.
like a burning flame,

so Avīra hell
So one dying in the Avīci hell

above while standing on the low side.
Below the upper side.

Herein, great beings live on the ocean,
Herein, the great beings live in it,

collapsed with great foes,
you’ll make a great bed

have reached the goal,
reached the ultimate goal.

They don’t move in the lake,
And they don’t monsters or deer.

Glass is born,
The body is produced.

by the wardens of hell.
to hell for them.

See, being strong,
see how it is being strong,

nor was lovely,
or for sure,

and they ran backwards.
to the east,

What he goes beyond the west,
and then runs downwards.

northern quarter,
northerly by the north.

western quarters (of the world),
and then the offering is worthy of a religious donation.

Whatever quarter goes beyond
That quarter is runs down

the door is (thinking):

and I’ve gone forth like the lady.
and then we went out.

who seeks happiness,
Sentient beings who seek birth,

and therefore I am not able to leave
and therefore I am not able to leave.

because of deeds: deeds,
because of deeds: because of deeds.

But they’ve done bad deeds
But their actions are bad

a lot of non-disappearance.
for what has not been done,

this is born, growing old, how could suffering,
this is suffering, this is the cause of suffering.

Through that sense is a condition for greed and relishing, etc.,
Because of that injuring lust and greed, relishing and greed,

Whatever bodily feelings that are painful, sharp, severe, acute, unpleasant, and disagreeable.
And where do those wepings that are painful tossed?

Sometimes they don’t become reborn in hell, the animal realm, and the produced by greed.
So they don’t appear to be reborn in them, ‘Continued existence is a condition for rebirth.’

This is the fear of suffering,
This is the breaking of suffering,

seeing the danger in being dissatisfied,
seeing the danger in being dissatisfaction,

The two kinds of customs station:
Leavesd their curry:

Craving, affection, and thirst.
Craving, affection, infatuation, thirst, and craving for views ...

This is the ending of craving.

This is the ground for view.

Seeing the drawback in that way, while seeking the dissatisfaction with the ending of craving, and while seeing the drawbacks in the world, he finds resistance in the ghost realm:
seeing the drawbacks of dissatisfaction, he finds danger in craving and displaying the drawbacks of views, while looking at the danger in it, looking at the drawback, and looking away.

seeing the danger in being drunk, and like a milk-rice and fibre,
seeing the danger in being dissatisfaction, seeing the danger in being tiny, (when) and the austerities,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“There are continued existences in the future,
“Those who sleep in a good place,

This is the fear of suffering,
This is the breaking of suffering,

seeing the danger in being dissatisfied,
seeing the danger in being dissatisfaction,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Out of compassion for your friends,

if he gets someone to take it away in love;
if he gets someone to take it away in love with a mind;

keep company with that peaceful,
always looking around this danger,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Accomplished in friendship, he picks up what is good inspiring with his own hands.
According to friendship with a mind full of kindness, (saying):

Two friends:

homeless, and unshakable, homeless.
homeless, and unrived, alert and homeless,

What is devious?
And what is devious and mindful?

It’s when someone gives what is hard to give, they do what is hard to endure. They reveal their secrets to you. They keep your secrets. They don’t abandon you in times of trouble. They don’t abandon you in times of trouble. They don’t abandon you in times of loss.
It’s when someone gives what is hard to give, gives what is hard to do, and they force what is hard to do. They reveal their secrets to you. They keep your secrets. They don’t abandon you in times of trouble. They don’t abandon you in times of loss. They don’t abandon you. They don’t abandon you in times of loss.

This house is decayed.
This house is devious.

What is not left behind?
What is deviousness?

It’s when a mendicant is dear and beloved to admonish, respected, revered, and venerated. They encourage others to do the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. And they don’t encourage others to do the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
It’s when a mendicant dear and beloved to the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They encourage others to do the same. And they don’t approve of listening to the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They encourage the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. They do so, they approve of the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

the four bases of psychic power ...

the five faculties ...

the five powers ...

the seven awakening factors ...

The noble eightfold path. And they encourage them to develop the noble eightfold path.
the noble eightfold path.

this homeless life is not left.

Queen Suppabuddha, there are states of loss, to comfort, and sitting at comfortable (interest), in comfort, and in comfort bly.
Queen Sunāparanta, tied to the sitting mat in comfort, and at ease, in comfort, and for ease, he in comfort (and now).

A friend who has compassion for one who has compassion and wants to show compassion. He lives in order to explain what is beneficial and what is suitable. And they encourage others to do the same.
A friendship and colleagues, relatives and family members, they lead kindness, compassion, and ruin and discrimination. They nurse themselves and take compassion. And they divide their own good, the goods, and even if they return to here and there, they for the sake of their own having nourishment and reputation.

Associating with friends he tells them to do good,
makes sure that good friends by their friends,

They’re bound for two reasons:
he is bound up with two kinds of mindfulness meditation:

Or they put others down on a bed or stuck in one’s place. They fix others on annihilation, or put others down.
set aside one placed himself in a low place, one puts others down on top of annihilated person, or someone else whose mind is lifted like this.

How may they put others down on a bed or laid down others on annihilated and bounded?
How do they make themselves happy and pleased?

I am very helpful to you, relying on robes, almsfood, a dwelling, and medicines.
I am very helpful to me. I’m supported with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

since I ask you to give to me or I have to see anyone else.
whatever other I’m able to give to them, you think that you are thinking.

Also my mother who was the oldest brother, my mother, father, and ascetics.
Yet even my mother and father, a son of the very same mother,

and I cry to the method,
I cycle you to cycle

and she’s born as a family.
she was associating with that family.

One who makes himself stuck in this way, saying,
One makes themselves happy and pleased, and put others down on another side.

How do they fix others on high ground and low?
How do they make others karma set aside inside?

It’s been very helpful to me. As I take my refuge in the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha. And I have gone for refuge to me.
I’ve been very helpful to you for refuge. I have gone for refuge to you and have the teaching.

I give you the recitation passage, and I announce them to you when you’re extrated.
I give you the recitation passage for recitation, and I ask about the observance day.

Then you, honor, respect, esteem, and venerate me.

When someone makes themselves sure of others, they put others down others on topic, saying,
One places others like this: ‘This is an educated with a mind that’s place.’

A person of good friends, sympathy for someone with compassion, causes what he to say.
having compassion for one deprived good friends with a mind of good friends.

keeps company with such danger.
that is peaceful, having gladness,

The perils of rebirth, old age, sickness, death, sorrow, and lamentation.
The perils of rebirth, old age, sickness, death, fear and terror; the dangers, abstaining from robbers, adultery, and the dangers of waves, sharks, and dangers; fear and dread, awaves, goats, rams, wields, bandits, and perils; fear and dread.

Welcome two blankets:
Eat:

Craving ...
Craving is a corruption of craving and views. ...

‘This is craving ...
This is the defilements ...

This is the ground for views.
This is the defilement of views.

Still, while looking at it, he looks around, thinking,
while looking at it with his ghost, looking at the ghost, looking around, thinking,

keep it safe, and unevenly.
(but) this danger, living alone, with a blessing, (and settlement in) the home of the Elders.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One who’s compassionate,
“Actually, having compassion for me,

if he gets someone to take it away in love;
if he gets someone to take it away in love with a mind;

keep company with that peaceful,
always looking around this danger,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

like a poison, just as the wind is purified.
like a poisonous wound,

concern for your partners and children:

dung, trickling out,
like a twisted string,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

like a poison, like a lotus leaf, the bamboo joint is said to be bamboo.
like an owl, like a poison, just as the Bamboo Wood is said to be a bamboo.

just as the Bamboos, wounds, sans after snapped the bamboo poison, laughed by the Buddhas, these are called craving.
just as the bamboos, wounds, so too clungs, having drunk from the carpets in the old age, are dried up, made an end of craving.

That is, greed, relishing, and craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
The craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are suffering.

Which is rotting by nails,
Strong down by means of which one stands.

transcending the boundaries,
he leads, going to the assembly, stands confidently,

gravel.
graves, detaching.

overcoming.
the streams of clinging.

he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

doesn’t escape beyond doubt.
he goes confidently, he stands confidently,

self-assured.
one who speaks confidently,

A rotting the streams
chopping:

on the fruit of stream-entry,
the fruit of deeds,

overestimates himself,
he enjoys the reward,

Or in the Attendance of sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. One who lives in the past lives with the future may have great desire for the five rewardions of existence in the past, future, and present.
Or else, in the case of craving for sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are the phenomena; in the past, future, or present; in the future the present for the sake of worldly pleasures, the suffering in the future.

Fetters:
Leavesd:

like a poison, just as the wind is purified.
like a poisonous wound,

concern for your partners and children:
concern for their partners and children:

Four children:

son of the Sakyan,
the son of the Buddha,

son of the fields, son, was given to him.
The son of good families,

wife is what is meant.
The wife is what is meant.

they’re called craving.
they’re said to be craving.

Greed, hate, and delusion.
Greed ...

concern for your partners and children:

a jungle thicket is called “consort”; it is called “without a bamboo joint.”
while near an ox foliage, a bamboo joint, a wound, or a carbuncle.

Just as a Bamboo Wood, in the Bamboo Wood, the Simile of the Buddhas who are free from attachments,
just as, when Bamboo Groves are loaded, the monks from the group of six were created logs, the Best of the Awakened One, the Buddhas are free from depression,

Who are blameworthy:
Two-day procedures:

craving and view ...

This is the end of craving ...
This is the craving today ...

this is the view today.

Paccekabuddhas has given up the Independent Buddhas’ views, giving up of views,
The Independent Buddhas has given up craving for views, resentment to give up.

With the giving up of craving for sounds, they don’t desire for sounds, smells, tastes, or touches. ...
When you’ve given up craving, you don’t have given up craving for sights. You don’t repelle with your smells. You don’t attached to it, and you don’t attached to it. ...

grabs a group ...

A monastery worker ...
dwelling in a monastery ...

... obtains ...
... “I obtain ...

the glorious ...
the glorious,

praise ...

pleasure ...
Pleasant is so very beneficial. ...

robe-cloth ...

alms-food ...

furniture ...
fermented urine ...

the requisite of medicine for support when sick ...
who are sick ...

The Realized One has given up sensual pleasures ...
the elements of sensuality ...

The sight element,
the form element,

formless,
the formless realm ...

sensual pleasures,
sensual pleasures ...

sights ...

from disgregation ...
formless ...

perception ...

perception of continued existence ...

They don’t realize any kind of feeling ...
continued existence ...

Vassakāra,
Vassakāra ...

four days ...
four blessings ...

five days ...
five wives ...

In the past ...

In the future ...

present ...
presently ...

He doesn’t familiar with seen, heard, thought, or known something, nor is heedless.
He doesn’t faint when poised, doesn’t cognize in regard to things that are, he’s not freed from things.

Rejoicing ...
he goes out, liberated, his mind freely, liberated, his mind free of limits:

Vaḷuka, acting like a twisted storm, excrement fever,
One, like a carcass, one who is unimpeded in a charnel ground, one who is unbuilded by rats.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Sounded by mucus, like a poison,
“Like deer in a poison,

concern for your partners and children:

dung, trickling out,
like a twisted string,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

like an animal in the wilderness,
like an animal in the wilderness, who is bound by a beast,

if he goes on alms;
if she goes towards where there is;

Having seen a sensible person who has not yet weeping,
seeing the wise man, clinging, like a trader,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

“I am bound to a forest grove,” and he do his duty.
he goes to the wilderness, of a bentered cattle,

Migāra’s mother.
two ignobles:

I hiden gems and anguish.
I was an embarrass,

Migāra’s staying in the wilderness, in a forest, they walk assemble the unfathers. And they walk, sit, and lie down confidently.
As a forest dweller in the wilderness, in a forest, goes in the forest, goes in the forest, and stands he’s confidently.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, suppose a wilderness region walks in a forest grove. When wandering in a forest, he walks confidently. He stands confidently, he sits confidently.
“Mendicants, suppose a forest was staying in the wilderness, in a forest, and in a roar, he walks confidently. He stands confidently, he stands confidently.

Why is that?

He is not, monks, within the range of a hunter.

In the same way, a mendicant, quite secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, enters and remains in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, as the placing of the mind and keeping it connected are stilled, a mendicant enters and remains in the second absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of immersion, with internal clarity and confidence, and unified mind, without placing the mind and keeping it connected.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, with the fading away of rapture, a mendicant enters and remains in the third absorption, where they meditate with equanimity, mindful and aware, personally experiencing the bliss of which the noble ones declare, ‘Equanimous and mindful, one meditates in bliss.’

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, giving up pleasure and pain, and ending former happiness and sadness, they enter and remain in the fourth absorption, without pleasure or pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness.
Furthermore, giving up pleasure and pain, and ending former happiness and sadness, a mendicant enters and remains in the fourth absorption, without pleasure or pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, a mendicant, going totally beyond perceptions of form, with the ending of perceptions of impingement, not focusing on perceptions of diversity, aware that ‘space is infinite’, enters and remains in the dimension of infinite space.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.
This is called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

Furthermore, a mendicant, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite space, aware that ‘consciousness is infinite’, enters and remains in the dimension of infinite consciousness. ...” ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of infinite consciousness, aware that ‘there is nothing at all’, they enter and remain in the dimension of nothingness. ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of nothingness, they enter and remain in the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception ...
Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of nothingness, they enter and remain in the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception. ...

Furthermore, going totally beyond the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, they enter and remain in the cessation of perception and feeling. And, having seen with wisdom, their defilements come to an end.
Furthermore, take a mendicant who, going totally beyond the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, enters and remains in the cessation of perception and feeling. And, having seen with wisdom, their defilements come to an end.

At such a time they are called a mendicant who has blinded Māra, put out his eyes without a trace, and gone where the Wicked One cannot see.

he walks confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently,
he goes, stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently, he stands confidently.

Why is that?

Because they’re out of the Wicked One’s range.”

“I am bound to a forest grove, like an ox,
he goes to the wilderness, of a bentered cattle,

Having sensible and weakness,
a sensible person would not consider it if we were able to make it known.

wise, learned, wise, and intelligent, wise, fully awakened,
wise, learned, and wise. He understands the knowledge of (the Bodhisatta).

A person who is attached to their life, a person, chief of wide open.
A person who isn’t a fool, a man should be born in a womb.

Such are two kinds of cramps:
there are two kinds of curry:

The Dhamma, too, is the blameworthy.
The Teaching should be lighted,

What Dhamma?
What is the Dhamma?

the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.

this is the Dhamma Serpent.
this is the Dhamma, this is the Dhamma.

Who is a person?
Who is the person who, who is the best?

Whoever has this teaching called a person who is a novice in the teaching.
is he who has this person who is endowed with the Dhamma that is called a person who has.

since he doesn’t apprehend annoyance, while walking, standing, sitting, or lying down.
while being wise, he wouldn’t see a sensible person who is competent, educated, looking at him when he has heard the teaching, and he keeps going beyond it.

Having sensible and weeping, affection, and clung to, heat and decorate,
Having been sensible and arranged into the water, one measuring the sacred flame.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“I’m bound to the wilderness,

if he goes on alms;
if she goes towards where there is;

Having seen a sensible person who has not yet weeping,
seeing the wise man, clinging, like a trader,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

He’s able to remember the midst of the friends.
He is hostile to end.

Whether on earth, on a rock,
Vāseṭṭhas, is going on the road,

Recollecting what is known as dissatisfied,
Without having blamed a lady,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

He is comfortable without companions. While staying in the middle of the day or by night, his friend is comfortable, using what is conveying the shade of against going, he lives in comfort, in opposite sex. Comfortably, in comfort, and intercourse.
He is comfortable for going on the middle, the end of the friend, and of the rainy season, which is comfortable and sitting on the private parts, requisites, and comfortable for rainy season. It is comfortable (infor us) comfortably.

They’re blocking in an instrument on the part of one or other to going. In regard to both of them, they speak to the next life, or to the next. And to both of them this about the next life, namely, themselves, both of the next.
They're blocked to help, preference, or to benefit both in lives to come. Indulging in the next life, there’s public and in the next life, or in lives to come. Instead of warning the next life, an uplifting religious donation, a position, and in the next life.

They’re spent in the midst of a friend, or to go to a posture.
He is incapable of friend and companions in regard to their friend, or to the departure of going.

Contentment, the dissatisfaction with fools is found, that is, the sectarians.
Contact is dissatisfaction with, but this is the opposite of the fools:

staying with a outcaste voice.
clothes, and cast-offs.

(But) today itself is to be astute in the Buddhas’ disciples of the past, that is,
For today this is so very beneficial, that is,

staying with a outcaste voice.
clothes, and cast-offs.

Such are two kinds of cramps:
there are two kinds of curry:

The Dhamma, too, is the blameworthy.
The Teaching should be lighted,

What Dhamma?
What is the Dhamma?

The four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...
The four kinds of mindfulness meditation are the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

The noble eightfold path:

this is the Dhamma Serpent.
this is the Dhamma, this is the Dhamma.

Who is a person?
Who is the person who, who is the best?

Whoever has this teaching called a person who is a novice in the teaching.
is he who has this person who is endowed with the Dhamma that is called a person who has.

Recollecting it, while looking at it, he looks thinking,
while eating, drinking, although he looks at it, looking at it with his ghost, thinking,

Without charming, grieving, and cheating, heat, (and called) damaged.
Without charming, (thinking): “Perhaps one, ~ and one who is (with blazing) water,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One who’s own friend is companions,
“For he is one who’s hostile;

Whether on earth, on a rock,
Vāseṭṭhas, is going on the road,

Recollecting what is known as dissatisfied,
Without having blamed a lady,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

lazy and burn.
(They are) burnt by what is conceived.

children, and widespread.
lovely to the children;

Speaked with love,
Speaking what’s dear, he’s disgusted

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

He enjoys what is depraved, but has grabbed his friend,
He enjoys himself with his friend,

consumed by two _paṇḍakas_:
and the two burning:

makers of earth, milk, stray.
And what fevers were eaten by crows, or burnt;

What is the consummate?
What is the reason why the Fortunate Ones burnt?

They played with elephants, horses, chariots, and intersections. And they played various games:
They played with games: board games, games, tip-cat, drawing straps, dice games, tip-cat, painting-with-the-hand games, ball games, tip-with-the-hand games, ball games, toy-pipe games, toy-plow games, turning somersaults, toy-windmill games, toy-measure games, toy-carriage games, toy-bow games, thought-gues, gamessing games of mimicking games of mirrortsing games of mimicking deformities.

This is the sheath.
This is the construction.

What is ‘posit’?
What is the rising out of burnt?

Erāpathas, a drank red face, frame, face-to-face on her face, cosmetics on the mouth, and paddling on a face.
Erāpathas, Earth, gardencircling frame, faces, frame, cosmetics on my face, and presumes on the mouth, and on the bank of the Ganges river.

This is the words “Give away”.
This is the rinsing sun.

they delight and aversion.
this is a delight to delight in seclusion.

When someone passes away within arranged for going, comfortable without going, making way to sit at ease, in comfort, in comfort, and at ease.
Yet when we oppressed to travel by way of going, comfortably on walking for alms, sitting in comfort, and comfortably on the sitting mat, and in comfort.

They burn up poison, constantly burn. And they play with their friend, saying:
They throw their friend in private parts, but their friend is pulled up with their friend.

lazy and burn.
(They are) burnt by what is conceived.

And they look after a abundant children ...
She has the son of children who witness,

Four children:

son of the world, the son of a son, was given to him.
the son of a son, a son of the bondservant,

He has much children, his sons and children.
He has much sons and children, his kinsmen; and his sons are strong.

children, and widespread.
lovely to the children;

Speaks known by the Piyatissa,
Speaks in the loved one, two lord of death,

or (mental) processes
sentient beings, or choices

What seven?
Which seven?

Your mother and father are brothers, relatives, or clan as guardian. Your mothers and father, brother, sister, relatives, or clan as guardian.
Your mother and father are brothers, desires, observed, women, who are happy, and recommended by their mother or father, brother, sisters, relatives, or kin.

What are (volitional) processes?

pleasing sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.
Sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts are likable.

Becoming horrified, repelled, and disgusted,, he disgusted, saying,
As a consequence, they became troubled.

Speaked, living alone, disgusted, and slicked, he just like a broken firewood.
Speaking concentration, undefeated, liberated, buyed, and sparking.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“While staying in the middle of a lake,
“What is their friend is to be constantly burnt by what?

children, and widespread.
lovely to the children;

Speaked with love,
Speaking what’s dear, he’s disgusted

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

is not penetrated by the four quarters,
is the four quarters and not impure,

being peaceful, you should understanding this state of existence.
being striken by the other,

Surrounded by foes,
are bound to provide for the pleasant,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

And the four directions:
And if the four quarters are pulled:

They meditate spreading a heart full of love to one direction, and to the second, and to the third, and to the fourth.

In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of love to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.

compassion ...
They meditate spreading a heart full of compassion ...

rejoicing ...

equanimity ...
equanimity to one direction, and to the second, and to the third, and to the fourth. In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of equanimity to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.

with rapture and happiness,
without hatred, without ill-will,

Those who are unrepulsive, in the east, the west, the north, and the southern quarter are those who are unrepulsive.
Those sentient beings who are unrepulsive in the eastern direction are the west, the north, and the south are the unrepulsive in the eastern quarters. Those sentient beings are free of unrepulsive in that direction.

equanimity has been developed and cultivated for the east. For the sentient beings who have developed the eastern direction ...
With developed and cultivated so as to subdue to the eastern quarter ...

Some sentient beings in the directions are unrepulsive.
The unrepulsive beings in both directions.

is not penetrated by the four quarters,
is the four quarters and not impure,

If they’re content with any kind of robe, and praises such contentment. They don’t try to get hold of a robe in an improper way. They don’t try to get robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
As a person is content with any kind of robe, they praise him because of this robe-cloth and the way. They don’t try to get hold of a robe in an improper way. They don’t get a robe, and don’t try to get robes.

He doesn’t get upset if he doesn’t get a robe. And if he gets a robe, he uses it untied, uninfatuated, unattached, seeing the drawback, and understanding the escape.
He doesn’t get upset if he doesn’t get a robe. And if he does get a robe, he uses it untied, uninfatuated, unattached, seeing the drawback, and understanding the escape.

And on account of that they don’t glorify themselves or put others down.
And on account of that robe they don’t glorify themselves or put others down.

Whoever is deft, tireless, aware, and mindful in this is said to stand in the ancient, primordial noble tradition.

They’re content with any kind of alms-food ...

They’re content with any kind of lodging ...

They’re content with any kind of medicines and supplies for the sick ...

But when he doesn’t get robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
But he doesn’t get enough requisites for support when sick.

And when they get these things, they use them untied, uninfatuated, unattached, seeing the drawbacks, and understanding the escape.

And they don’t glorify themselves and put others down on account of their patches.
And the other kind of medicines don’t glorify themselves and put others down on account of her who is not sick.

Whoever is deft, tireless, aware, and mindful in this is called the ancient, primordial noble tradition.
Whoever is deft, tireless, aware, and mindful in this is said to stand in the ancient, primordial noble tradition.

being peaceful, you should understanding this state of existence.
being striken by the other,

They are unable to keep up with them.
are bound to people.

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

he has concealed offenses, and concealed for a half-month.
is concealed for the offenses and concealed for the concealed.

What is the cream of the winnowing?
What is the explanation of the Dhamma?

carpenters, fever, afflicted (of disease), stomach-butchers, fever, and epilepsy. Or their conjunction is afflicted carbunction, boils, hunger, thirst, fever, gastricting, cholera, leprosy, boils, eczema, tuberculosis, epilepsy, herpes, itch, scabs, smallpox, scabies, hemorrhage, diabetes, pimples, pimples, and ulcers. Afflictions stemmmmmming from disorders of bile, phlegm, wind, or their conjunction. Afflictions caused by change in weather, by not taking care of yourself, by overexertion, or as the
his carpenters are hunters, sickness, death, thirst, passions, meat, hunger, thirst, afflicted by cold winds, the heat, the hunger, thirst, the abscess, the faces, the winds, the burning sun, the heat, the inner skin, the flesh, the sinews, the ears, the nose, the tongue, the body, the headache of long.

These are called the tendencies of food.
These are called the speces of offenses.

What concealed?
What is the concealed place for the concealed?

misconduct by body, speech, and mind; ill will, dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. all these things are the hindrances.
Bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and dullness and drowsiness, restlessness and remorse, and doubt. All of these things are the hindrances, ill will, anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

These are called the teachings that are conceived.
These are called the concealment of the offenses that were concealed.

Intelligent they disrepute.
it will be destroyed by one who abandons it.

They lead to decline.
They lead to anxiety. They lead to the decline of getting material possessions. They lead to anxiety.

How do they lose?
How do you get free of desire?

They burn, swep away, and running away.
They burn the streams of the people,

they replied,
They lead him around

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do they lead to decline?
How do they lead to the decline of this bag?

lead to decline in skillful qualities.
When they lead to decline,

What are wholesome things?

right effort ...
right mindfulness, situational awareness, and mindfulness.

the four bases of psychic power ...

the five faculties ...

the five powers ...

the seven awakening factors ...

the noble eightfold path.

These things lead to decline in skillful qualities.
These things lead to an obstacle.

In this way they lead to decline,
In this way they lead to decline.

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

How do you get lost?
How are they lost?

Because those bad, unskillful qualities arise.
That bad, unskillful qualities arise to be stored up.

Just as when Bāhiya was catsted in the air.
As they were lying down in the air, the ground in the air, (such as) a trees, the hands, and the foots of a trees, bedsing the beds, –

In the same way, those bad, unskillful qualities arise in you, and on.
In the same way, bad, unskillful qualities arise within that same way.

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.

And how does a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master live in suffering and discomfort?

When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise: memories and thoughts don’t arise.
When a mendicant sees a sight with the eye, bad, unskillful phenomena arise and bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by that.
’s mastered by that bad, unskillful qualities.

they’re said to have a teaching master.

When they hear a sound with their ear ...
Furthermore, a mendicant hears a sound with their ears ...

When I smelled an odor with my nose ...
When they smell an odor with their nose ...

tastes a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...

feels an agreeable touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful phenomena arise, and bad, unskillful qualities don’t arise.
When they know a thought with their mind, bad, unskillful qualities arise and bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

they’re said to have a resident student.
they’re said to have a resident monk.

Those qualities master them. Since they’re mastered by that.
’s mastered by that bad, unskillful qualities,

they’re said to have a teaching master.

That’s how a mendicant who lives with a resident student and a teaching master lives in suffering and discomfort.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.
“Mendicants, there are these three obstacles, inner enemies, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

What are the three?
What three?

greed, hate, and delusion.

and delusion.

These three are inner stains, inner foes, inner enemies, inner killers, and inner adversaries.

greed creates harm;

greedy mind,

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A greedy person doesn’t know the good.

like a greedy person doesn’t see the teaching.
isn’t able to see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

creates harm;
hate is harmful;

They disturb the mind.
hate is cruel;

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A hateful person doesn’t know the good.

A hateful person doesn’t see the truth.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind darkness is left.

Delusion creates harm;

deluded mind,
deluded mind.

from fear,
the danger from anywhere,

the danger that arises within.

A deluded person doesn’t know the good.

Mūḷaka does not see the truth.
One is like a deluded person doesn’t see the teaching.

When a person is beset by greed,
When a person is beset by hate,

only blind to fellows.”
only delusion isn’t overcome by delusion.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Great king, three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

What are the three?
What three?

Great king, greed arises inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.
Greed is a person who has for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

Hate is hate ...
hate ...

and delusion.

These three things arise inside a person for their harm, suffering, and discomfort.

greed, hate, and delusion,

have arisen inside oneself,

Destroy the person with bad thoughts,

as a reed is destroyed by its own fruit.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

for this is said by the Buddha,

“Greed and hate come from here;

from here spring discontent, desire, and terror;

here’s where the mind’s thoughts originate,

like a crow let loose by boys.”

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

Because they are water filters. There are no more than drains.
Because it’s protected by an assembly, they don’t get scattered outside.

Should completely purify the cleansings,
are beneficial and related to their own welfare.

Shady Or he was awakened, scared, suspicious, lacking regard for himself, and fear. He shakes off fear and dread.
He’s given up six things. He lives without fear, dread, fear, and dread.

was like the sunshade, one with a peak, and one who had destroyed a valuable bitter.
Looking together with aimback, one with a rotten thunder,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“A person is improved, not improved.
“A person is impure and not impure,

being peaceful, you should understanding this state of existence.
being striken by the other,

Surrounded by foes,
are bound to provide for the pleasant,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

even one gone forth
Associating with the cloth, some went forth,

and unlike the household, in his household,
and one that’s home in the home,

and at the end of suffering:
and having become very white...

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Due to go forth, there are some binding-standing ascetics who have gone forth, while they are despised, tearing out their robes, and in fightened, laughtering and trough. They fleeze, enregarded with clothes, etc., thinking, ‘There are no transgressed for the day’, they listened to the Dhamma, being annoyed by day, or even by day or by night.
When there is a bandit, one gone forth and flattering in the middle of the day, but not others down. They hindered the bowls by day, and they listened to the teaching or by night, and no-one present objects; they listen to the teaching are being taught. They don’t looked down on them for the day, and they listen to the teaching or not.

even one gone forth
Associating with the cloth, some went forth,

When someone takes up homes, sometimes some goats and sheeps.
and they went districts while others walk. ...

chariots ...
There is a charnel ground in the wilderness, in an empty village, a garden, or a charnel ground in the village,

a town,
a town or village.

kingship ...
Whether on kings,

Even when the country is given and they don’t pay attention, they don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand, and they keep on others.
When the country is being taught, they don’t pay attention or apply their minds to understand, and they keep on doing so.

and unlike the household, in his household,
and one that’s home in the home,

Having renowned yourself, and taking care of others, all of the other sons too.
and when they become very white, all of the others except together with this son or that of mine.

When they’ve been ejected to others, untrue, without scrutinizing,
When they’ve arrived at others, they become without scratching.

remain passive and pure,
and at the very white territory he had thrown aside amongst the others.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One gone forth is found,
“One gone forth is found in the human state,

and unlike the household, in his household,
and one that’s home in the home,

and at the end of suffering:
and having become very white...

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

after descending from the courtesan phrases,
after descending from the courtesan’s rites for the householders,

as if an enemy bubbles a ball of thorns,
If you have a reeds, just as you like.

Having cut the strips of a householder,
Having cut the story off the heroes, the householders would deposite.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

This is called “ascetic” and “Giving postures”. They are called “badths”, “metics”, “Māra, ointments,”quiring head hairs and beards, dressed in ointment, close-flowers, and neither toothin nor toothinking.
The female lay followers of the household after getting their hair and beards, dresses in ointments, garlands, fragrances, and perfumes, and garlands, perfumes, and makeup, and beds, and benches, garlands and fragrances, and perfumes, and cosmetics. Their bracelets, perfumes, and jewels, choping the armpits for jewels, and jelry, chowelry, and long-fringed white—that’s scented white, ornaments.

descended from the hermaphrodite’s bathing off and set out on the bank, and put them down right there, saying,
descending from the courtesan’s rites, captures, and set out on dispraise, he then descends down and lay down on himself.

after descending from the courtesan phrases,
after descending from the courtesan’s rites for the householders,

Even if they’re healthy and well-known, just as they fall, so too the householder Koḷiyan catches,
So too when someone has caught up with them, the leaves, however displayed, they throw themselves into a bowl carpets, fall down the crack of dawn, runnning back and forth,

as if an enemy bubbles a ball of thorns,
If you have a reeds, just as you like.

Incinerated by the wise one,
The laying in the middle of the door,

Rohitassa, hero, rising forwards, crushing the resplendent, elephant, horse, charioteer, terrrifies, and goad. He stands fearful, blooming, displayed, none of these things.
Rohitassa, Vivīra, heroic, cuckool, slaughtering the hero, whirlpool, poisonous energy, the hero, gets rid of the responsibility, and is abandoned when fearless.

I was free from all snares,
I was stainless here in all ways,

hell, the spiritual life,
you’re dying in hell, the animal realm, and the spiritual life.

They’re energetic
that’s energetic,

The Wise One is declared enlightenment.
The wise one is free from self-developed.

children, partners, bondservants, workers, and staff; and our male and female bondservants are called ‘chickens’.
Parents, children, partners, bondservants, workers, and staff; male and female bondservants, elephants and cattle, goats and sheep, chickens and pigs, elephants and horses, and male and female bondservants.

Having cut off the bondservants, a person awakened for themselves, after cutting off the lay life, and cutting them off, they’d cut them off, and cut them off,
Having cut off the layman’s bondservants, vanquished by the Buddha, and cut off the lay life, he cuts off the lay life, after cut off the lay life,

Having cut the layman, he in charge of the building, one between the two shouldersons.
Having cut the layman, he inner skin, one in the order to prepare the beings.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having proportioned, a hermaphrodite,
“Having cured the illustrious laypeople,

as if an enemy bubbles a ball of thorns,
If you have a reeds, just as you like.

Having cut the strips of a householder,
Having cut the story off the heroes, the householders would deposite.

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

first,
The first is the first fire.

2. Dutiyavagga

If you get a discerning friend,
If you find a good companion

no wise and virtuous friend,

overcoming all your troubles
then, overcoming all challenges,

And go with them, glad and mindful.
wander with them, joyful and mindful.

If he finds a vulnerability, they’d get wise, but think
If they get to take hold of a hand, they would be wise, then find a vulnerability, possessive knowledge, and make known:

If you get a discerning friend,
If you find a good companion

no wise and virtuous friend,

wandering together with him.
wandering alone;

It’s good to live in the first absorption by phrases even the second absorption.
It’s good for a mendicant who lives in the first absorption.

and the third absorption ...

They meditate spreading a heart of love ...
It’s good for the fourth absorption ...

gladness ...
soft ...

equanimity,
equanimity and attainment of the dimension of infinite space. ...

the dimension of nothingness ...
the dimension of nothingness,

well-perception in the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception is good, and good by attainment of cessation.
and by attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception, it’s good to have the attainment of cessation.

The Hero, wise and virtuous even more pain owing to his knowledge, discovering knowledge,
The wise and virtuous here, wise and wise intelligent, skilled in knowledge, and analytical knowledge,

no wise and virtuous friend,

overcoming all your troubles
then, overcoming all challenges,

He has died:
Two probation are diverted:

of an offense entailing suspension, and concealed for a half-month. ...
concealed for the offenses and concealed for the previous offense ...

These are called the texts on offenses of wrong conduct. ...
These are called the speces of an offense entailing expulsion. ...

These are called the concealed perils that were concealed ...
These are called the concealed specifically for a concealed place. ...

In this way:
That too is how

He has prepared a maiden.
and he lost his ploughshare.

Mastered them, they all overcome them and overwhelmed them.
Mastered by all her troubles, having mastered all things. Having mastered all that, he then conquered them, saying,

overcoming all your troubles
then, overcoming all challenges,

God’s neglecting that’s why I’m pleased with the Buddha awakened for themselves. And the astute would be pleased with me when they’re wise, bright, and clever.
Goding, they’re happy with that, and mindful. Being joyful, they might see my knowledge of the Buddhas. When paying reverence for him, they would be pleased with me, saying: ‘May I have no joy for me.’

And go with them, glad and satisfied.

Similarly awakened is mindful. They have utmost mindfulness and alertness, and can remember and recall what was said and done long ago.
S mindfulness and situational awareness.

And go with them, glad and mindful.
wander with them, joyful and mindful.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“If you get a discerning friend,
“If you find a good companion

no wise and virtuous friend,

overcoming all your troubles
then, overcoming all challenges,

And go with them, glad and mindful.”
wander with them, joyful and mindful.”

If you do not get a discerning friend,
If you do not find a good companion

no wise and virtuous friend,

then, like a king who flees his conquered realm,
then, like a king giving up his kingdom,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

If they don’t get enough, they’re wise, bright, and clever. We would get to know
If not, they wouldn’t get a wise liberate, then I wouldn’t have a sense of urgency, wise! You’d get rid of knowledge and vision, saying:

If you do not get a discerning friend,
If you do not find a good companion

no wise and virtuous friend,

wandering together with him.
wandering alone;

well-considered in the first absorption.
It’s good for a mendicant who lives in the first absorption.

and by the attainment of cessation.
and by attainment of cessation.

or the fruit of good deeds.
possessing the fruit of good deeds,

The Hero, wise and virtuous even more pain owing to his knowledge, discovering knowledge,
The wise and virtuous here, wise and wise intelligent, skilled in knowledge, and analytical knowledge,

no wise and virtuous friend,

An anointed aristocratic king Vijitasena over him. He unstirredied into the town hall with the peaked roof, carrying a polished his hair and beard, dressed in red ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.
King Disampati put his army in discomfort and entered the town with his army as anointed aristocratic king. He rose into the adornment and dressed in ocher robes, settles his hair and beard and dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.

After cutting off all over the robes, and gone forth from the lay life to homelessness, they shave off their hair and beard, dress in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.
When the Independent Buddhas awakened, all cut off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness. Having cut off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.

king gave up his conqueror of kings, and his conquered realms,
then, like a king who flees his conquered realm, depraved eaten by the country of Avanti.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“If you find no alert companion,

no wise and virtuous friend,

then, like a king who flees his conquered realm,
then, like a king giving up his kingdom,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Through my friend austerity and comrade,
He is mindful, and virtuous,

should associate within the best, which you should not associate with.
The best is the best of which you should associate with,

These were to be received by these, blameless,
Not finding tasty food, full of impure explanation,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Heaven once a friend,
Practicing a friend with a companion,

and terms for one lying down, terminators, deluded, accumulation, and displaying, all-sphere,
it is terminator because of one defining that is enveloping the definition of terminology; for one is rigid, unconfused, false, and unbeneficial.

it is certainly not possible to lift my head from the round (of births and deaths) through a thousand rebirths,

But one who has persevere with friends is called a trainee, who has no virtue,.
He has the accomplishment in ethics, immersion, and wisdom.

the entire spectrum of an adept’s wisdom,
the wisdom there is from the aggregate of wisdom,

the entire spectrum of an adept’s ethics,
the aggregates of deliverance ...

and knowledge and vision of freedom of one fully trained.
and knowledge and vision of freedom of one fully trained,

We practice accordingly.
We practice faithfully.

Through my friend austerity and comrade,
He is mindful, and virtuous,

They should associate with, accompany, and they have virtue and concentration.
He is the best calm, which is the best concentration, having insight and knowledge and vision of freedom.

They are accomplished in ethics, immersion, wisdom, and knowledge and vision of freedom.
They are equal in ethics, immersion, wisdom, and knowledge and vision of freedom.

You should associate with, accompany, and attend them on him.
that which you should associate with, accompany, and attend with one who is the best of them:

should associate within the best, which you should not associate with.
The best is the best of which you should associate with,

Understanding these, I blameless person, and blamelessness.
Not finding anything, they’re blameless, and enjoying them.

And who is the person with greed?
And who is a person start with food?

It’s when someone gives a gift to an early manages that cause negligence by carpentry, for giving and taking in marriage; and when he tried to get a donor, any offering, etc., and uses robes to give alms food, drink, clothes, and vehicles; garlands, fragrances, and makeup; and after giving the stains of powder, medicines and supplied and provided with the sickness by the hand of giving, and by giving a donor astments:
It’s when someone with arches a balanced jungle, having destroyed material possessions and honor, and popularity, and fame, carrying a gift through the bowl, and by giving a gift through a spot, using the recipientment by gifts, by giving a sharing, by gifts with (of the Buddhas) aspirations, by going on foot, powder, and by gifts of the Lord of the Three, and by gifts of the Three Worlds, and by giving a synowing, and making a sympathympathy for the minds, and setting the rest.

This is called a person who enjoys food.
This is called a person who has scorned with greed.

And who is the person who blameless?
And who is the person who is blameless?

It’s when someone doesn’t get arrangement by giving, etc., and make a donation of gain and honors a great deal of favourable amountment by addressing flavors, and having gained faith, and prevent you don’t get a gift by gift, even by going to the food and drink, clothes, etc., through the breeze, and by giving a saucer bathing.
It’s when someone doesn’t use a sceneeze through theft, oral tremble, or get food and drink, clothes, vehicles, or beliefs, or beliefs, and or beliefs, and runnning the fruit of giving a servants, etc., and I don’t get a little by an opposite of food, drink, clothes, vehicles, by gifts, or by gifts, and don’t belief on gifts, and don’t give gifts, and don’t give a gifts bent, and don’t get rid of ses a gifts a gift, and don’t by giving a sharing.

This person is called blameless.
This is called a person who is blameless.

He gets these things, and then don’t get these things.
They don’t get these things, and don’t get these things.

Not lucky, those who have no transgress, eating the big and broken rice.
Not finding fault, not avoiding the supreme fire, and one who lives alone.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Faithful is his friend,
“Faith is my friend, companions and comrade,

should associate within the best, which you should not associate with.
The best is the best of which you should associate with,

These were to be received by these, blameless,
Not finding tasty food, full of impure explanation,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Seeing that a golden plate,
Seeing that golden pretty flashed,

a good deed that’s well grounded,
being so well-proclaimed,

Serving in the Saṅgha,
Drawns and sacred cloths

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Having seen him, and seeing him lying in the golden palanquin, and seeing him lying there, he fell asleep,
Seeing that golden pretends, working for the beatings, and seeing him lying in the golden palanquin, beating her, and massing the Lord of the Truth.

golden silver,
gold or silver.

Regardless of pure and clean.
you’re pure and bright.

Seeing that a golden plate,
Seeing that golden pretty flashed,

a (good) deed that is called prominent merchant’s son, who is called a golden worker.
a very movement by deeds is called a resplendent son of the deeds,

and well-declared deeds:
he is well-proclaimed, sovereignty, and well-proclaimed.

a good deed that’s well grounded,
being so well-proclaimed,

the handful of threshing floor is called handful.
the Community is said to be the handful of the Community; (thinking): “In this place is what is meant.”

Just as one of those men bathed,
Just as two goats in their hands, making two inches,

so too the sentient beings who, caught up in hell, attacked by the strings of hell, the animal realm, and the ghost realm are caught up in a whirlpool, shoves and framework of the Saṅgha, so too, they ripe after robbing a cracking life.
In the same way, sentient beings chopped in hell, attacked by craving, mixed up with views, and rubbed them from place to place. They equipment, and shove them.

Shunning in the Saṅgha’s drop is quite destroyed, unroubled and devious.
a dropping cloth in the Sangha, one who was badly buffalo, stubborn, and deformed

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having seen a golden garland,
“Having seen the golden statue,

a good deed that’s well grounded,
being so well-proclaimed,

Serving in the Saṅgha,
Drawns and sacred cloths

One should wander alone, like a small fire.”
one should live alone, with spittles and tiny.”

So with the passing of a wicked deed,
the same way my body is oppressed,

intelligent and moving along,
or by enemying on gain,

danger, looking at it forwards in the future.
keeps going to the future,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

In this way it is hard for me to speak to me, and an individual.
This is how there is a bad deed or with the teaching.

How does craving endure?
How is one who has overcome craving?

craving for sights ...

For the one who hasn’t given up craving there is called grief,
For the one who hasn’t given up craving there is what is called.

Craving is a person’s partner

as they transmigrate on this long journey.

They go from this state to another,
their coming and going,

but don’t escape transmigration.

That’s how craving is shown.
That’s how craving is guarded.

How is someone unworthy talk?
And how is a person unworthy of the people?

It’s when someone doesn’t have a funeral pyre or unspecified mind. This is the second kind of two or three.
It may be that someone doesn’t cause or reason for the sake of their own body or mind is the second, or third is the fourth.

and there a lot of talking nonsense.
and there a great many kinds of talking nonsense.

That is:

talk about kings, bandits, and ministers; talk about armies, threats, and wars; talk about food, drink, clothes, and beds; talk about garlands and fragrances; talk about family, vehicles, villages, towns, cities, and countries; talk about women and heroes; street talk and well talk; talk about the departed; motley talk; tales of land and sea; and talk about being reborn in this or that state of existence.
about kings, gangsters, and officials; about armies, dangers, and battles; about food, drink, clothes, and beds; about garlands and perfumes; about relatives, vehicles, villages, towns, and countries; about women and heroes; gossip; about the departed; about various trivialities; about the world and the sea; about being this or that.

That’s how it is for the uneducated ordinary person.

So with the passing of a wicked deed,
the same way my body is oppressed,

They are called ‘one who enjoys stinginess’.
Or they are often spoken of by ties, leopards, bears, and gods of the Thirty-Three.

kings ...
talk about kings, bandits, and ministers ...

talk about profit and loss.

Consecrated:
Two people drink:

craving and view ...

This is the end of craving ...
This is the craving today ...

This is the way to avoid view.
This is the view today.

intelligent and moving along,
or by enemying on gain,

looks on this, they look down upon the future.
looks on this is the danger of the future,

The perils of rebirth, old age, sickness, death, sorrow, and lamentation.
The perils of rebirth, old age, sickness, death, fear and terror; the dangers, abstaining from robbers, adultery, and the dangers of waves, sharks, and dangers; fear and dread, awaves, goats, rams, wields, bandits, and perils; fear and dread.

Recollecting that danger in the future, he looks around, thinking,
while looking around in the future, he looks at the future, thinking,

dangerous, living alone, with a sword, while walking, for the future.
While looking on this danger in the future, one is liquor.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Through the word of a wrong time,
“If my duty was very hard to me,

intelligent and moving along,
or by enemying on gain,

danger, looking at it forwards in the future.
keeps going to the future,

One should wander alone, like a small fire.”
one should live alone, with spittles and tiny.”

Sensual pleasures are diverse, sweet, delightful;

appearing in disguise they disturb the mind.

Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Sensual pleasures are diverse, sweet, delightful;

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

Longings of different colors, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches.
different colors, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

For this was said by the Buddha in ‘The Madhurā’:
The Buddha spoke of the sweet:

“Mendicants, there are these five kinds of sensual stimulation.

What are the five?
What five?

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

Sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

these, monks, are the five strands of sense pleasure.
These are the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

The pleasure and happiness that arise from these five kinds of sensual stimulation is called sensual pleasure—a filthy, ordinary, ignoble pleasure. Such pleasure should not be cultivated or developed, but should be feared, I say.”

Sensual pleasures are diverse, sweet,

delights in heaven,
was delighted,

mind element ...

Surrounded him, they flew off, thinking,
They delight in it, and planted it:

Sensual pleasures are diverse, sweet, delightful;

Living in a different way, they discriminate sights.
Living in a disgrace ...

Smelled by various kinds of touches, thinking,
touches known by the body of various kinds, delighted by various kinds of tangibles:

appearing in disguise they disturb the mind.

Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation,

for this is said by the Buddha,

“And what is the drawback of sensual pleasures?
“Mendicants, who is a drawback of sensual pleasures?

It’s when a gentleman earns a living by means such as risks, drives, warrior-chiefs, government services, or raisings, blazing and glowing. Then they flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles.
It’s when a gentleman earns a living by means, when he earns a living by any kind of work, heat, warrior-chief, spears, and cattle, pursues, doubles, cattle, and rubling strikes, and spreads throughout the lake. Controlled through the cold, heat, hunger, and thirst.

This is the drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

That gentleman might try hard, strive, and make an effort, and lamented when he trives his breast and falling into confusion.
That gentleman might try hard, strive, and make an effort, but sorrow and wail and lament, beating their breast and falling into confusion.

‘Oh, my hard work is wasted. My efforts are fruitless!’

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

That gentleman might try hard, strive, and make an effort, and succeed in earning money. And he experiences pain and sadness.
That gentleman might try hard, strive, and make an effort, and succeed in earning money. And experience pain and sadness.

‘How can I prevent my wealth from being taken by rulers or bandits, consumed by fire, swept away by flood, or taken by unloved heirs?’

And even though they protect it and ward it, rulers or bandits take it, or fire consumes it, or flood sweeps it away, or unloved heirs take it.

They grieve and runn out. ...
They grieve and lament. They grieve and wail, thinking: ‘I’m earning ... nose ... tongue ... body ...’

I’ve contemplated
I enjoyed myself with desire ...

‘What used to be mine is gone.’

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures kings fight with kings, aristocrats fight with aristocrats, brahmins fight with brahmins, and householders fight with householders. A mother fights with her child, child with mother, father with child, and child with father. Brother fights with brother, brother with sister, sister with brother, and friend fights with friend.

Once they’ve started quarreling, arguing, and fighting, they attack each other with fists, stones, rods, and swords,

resulting in death and deadly pain.
and there (and then) they underwent death, and pain like unto death.

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures they don their sword and shield, fasten their bow and arrows, and plunge into a battle massed on both sides, with arrows and spears flying and swords flashing.

There they are struck with arrows and spears, and their heads are chopped off,

resulting in death and deadly pain.
and there (and then) they underwent death, and pain like unto death.

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures they don their sword and shield, fasten their bow and arrows, and charge wetly plastered bastions, with arrows and spears flying and swords flashing.

There they are struck with arrows and spears, and their heads are chopped off,
There they are struck with arrows and spears, and their heads are chopped off, and their heads are chopped off,

resulting in death and deadly pain.
and there (and then) they underwent death, and pain like unto death.

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures they take care of sensual pleasures, plunder wealth, steal from isolated buildings, and commits highway robbery.
Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures they prevent a double maintain their swords, shields, and swords.

The rulers would arrest them and subject them to various punishments—

whipping,
whipping, caning, and clubbing; cutting off hands, or both;

chopped off his head,
cut off the head with a sword,

resulting in death and deadly pain.
and there (and then) they underwent death, and pain like unto death.

This too is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.
This is a drawback of sensual pleasures apparent in this very life, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.

Furthermore, for the sake of sensual pleasures, they conduct themselves badly by way of body, speech, and mind.

When their body breaks up, after death, they’re reborn in a place of loss, a bad place, the underworld, hell.

This is a drawback of sensual pleasures to do with lives to come, a mass of suffering caused by sensual pleasures.”

Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation, he saw the drawbacks of sensual pleasures, and he done so after considering them, he fell asleep.
Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation, he saw the drawbacks of sensual pleasures, and he developed himself. He extended the drawbacks and subsequently, and he developed that.

Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation, one who abstains from strands of swords,
Seeing the danger in worldly pleasures, they ate the tips of a bird.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Do not want to be successful, sweet, delightful;
“What diverse minds are diverse, sweet, delightful;

appearing in disguise they disturb the mind.

Seeing danger in the many kinds of sensual stimulation,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Soreyya and Upatissa,
Sorrow and violence,

I’ve heard the a disease, and what I fear.
disease, boil, dart, and whatever I am lying,

Seeing this fear in the world,
Seeing this fear in the senses,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

it is a boil, a dart, and change.
The Buddha summons him, and that is a dart, assessing, and chainsing.

“Mendicants, ‘danger’ is a term for sensual pleasures.
“Mendicants, ‘Danger of sensual pleasures’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

‘Suffering’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

and ‘Box’ are terms for sensual pleasures.
‘Four’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

and ‘boil’ are terms for sensual pleasures.
‘boil’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

‘Arrow’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

and ‘Buddha’ are terms for sensual pleasures.
‘Black’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

and ‘bog’ are terms for sensual pleasures.

‘Bomb’ is a term for sensual pleasures.
‘born’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

And why is ‘association’ a term for sensual pleasures?
And why is a term for sensual pleasures?

Someone who is caught up in sensual greed and shackled by lustful desire is not freed from dangers in the present life or in lives to come. That is why ‘danger’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

And why are they suffering?
And why are they suffering? ...

disease,
disease ...

some thieves ...
one who takes lumps,

chains,
The dart of animals,

Reciting Saṅgha ...
Reciting in the Saṅgha ...

jackal ...

‘Sensual pleasures’ is a term for sensual pleasures.
‘born’ is a term for sensual pleasures.

Someone who is caught up in sensual greed and shackled by lustful desire is not freed from wombs in the present life or in lives to come. That is why ‘womb’ is a term for sensual pleasures.”

Danger, suffering, and disease,

boil, dart, and chain,

and bogs and wombs both.

These describe the sensual pleasures

to which ordinary people are attached.
to which ordinary people are attached,

Swamped by things that seem pleasant,

you go to another womb.

But when a mendicant is keen,

and doesn’t forget awareness,

in this way they transcend

they’ve transcended the goal.
you’ve passed down from the stage.

They watch this population as it trembles,

fallen into rebirth and old age.

Soreyya and Upatissa,
Sorrow and violence,

I’ve heard the a disease, and what I fear.
disease, boil, dart, and whatever I am lying,

When he sees this with sensual pleasures, he shakes off his fears. He remains after disrobing them, becoming arriving them, saying,
When they see this danger in sensual pleasures, they murder and give them up to the five kinds of sensual stimulation. Having seen that, they were unable to develop.

Seeing this, one who has multitude of sensual pleasures, having destroyed the blazing twisted.
Seeing this danger in sensual pleasures, one is abstaining from strands,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Kuṇḍa, and Upatissa,
“Through three there is a violent, Upaka, and Upaka,

I’ve heard the a disease, and what I fear.
disease, boil, dart, and whatever I am lying,

Seeing this fear in the world,
Seeing this fear in the senses,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

and cold, heat, hunger, and thirst,

winds, sunk insects, and resplendent,
a wind, sun, and resplendent.

after conquering all his existence,
After conquering all chains,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

If they cold and heat,
cold and heat.

they are cold on heat.
there are two kinds of cold:

if a messenger is to be given by cold or heat externally,
if he is not able to overcome externally, or with cold or he is change in externally,

hot season from hot season:
There are two kinds of hot water:

if a storm-element is stiffened outside or cliff,
if he is expelled by the elements, or by means of warming it or external,

milk-rice is what is meant.
port of milk-rice is what is meant.

or a stone,
asked, it is said to be impressive:

and cold, heat, hunger, and thirst,

and winds burning up, and burning winds,
and serves a cow with wind;

winds that are dusty or the east, west, north, and south. There are winds that are dusty and dustless, cool and warm, weak and strong.
Winds blow from the east, the west, the north, and the south. There are winds that are dusty and dustless, cool and warm, weak and strong.

the sun is what is meant.

These are called the marks of the sal trees.
These are called the carcass of clay.

They are called “teady”.
Living in transgression:

winds, sunk insects, and resplendent,
a wind, sun, and resplendent.

After conquering all these things, they’ve drunk down into the sky.
Soon afterwards they’ve drunk all over and run away. They think,

(Having) entirely originated with all existence, one decorated with destroyed,
having destroyed all beings, cast off a damaged by one,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“The lion, heat, milk, and cold,
“As a lion, a cold and heat,

winds, sunk insects, and resplendent,
a wind, sun, and resplendent.

after conquering all his existence,
After conquering all chains,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

after attacking the elephant,
like an elephant in a poisoned forest,

born in the womb,
born in a womb, an embankment,

“Like deer in the wilderness,
“Like wish to live in the wilderness,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

a wild elephant, after attacking the elephant, it is said to be seized by an elephant,
a elephant, after attacking a poison, the elephant’s horse, is said to be (you).

an Independent Sambuddha named Nāga.
an Independent Sambuddha,

Independent Sambuddha Kisākha, who was awakened,
At the end of what reasons the Independent Buddhas

Of those who return to the wilds,
Of those who return to the dragon,

a giant doesn’t go quickly.
a giant doesn’t go to the elephant.

if he does not come;
if you don’t reach a giant.

How does he awakened for themselves?
How is it one Independent Buddhas Truly?

They’re called bad, unskillful qualities that are corrupted, leading to future lives, hurtful, resulting in suffering and future rebirth, old age, and death.
They are called bad, unskillful qualities.

are unable to arrive in the world,
are not able to arrive in the world,

and bondage to all beings.
and bondage to go forth in the home of all beings.

although I’m not freed in every way,
everywhere you’re not freed in every way.

the giant is quenched also.
The Simile of the Dragons (Dragons) in the same way.

In this way the Independent Buddhas are not famous, no longer comes to dragons.
In this way the Independent Buddhas didn’t show his way.

How does he achieve a Sambuddha not come?
How do you not come to an end?

At the end of the Independent Buddhas without consent.
At the end of the Independent Buddhas,

if a monk is not prejudiced by hate;
They don’t make decisions.

if he is not dejected;

you don’t go to a friend
you don’t go to a place.

if he is not coming to it;
it is not possible to go by greed.

if she does not go to hate;
if she does not walk;

if he is not deceived by delusion;
if she does not walk;

if he does not go on conceit;
if he does not go by means of a conceit;

nor do they go to a view.
Not by view it is not possible to go on their views.

if he is not able to settle himself;
if it is not a blessing;

does not go to doubt,

if he is not going to a staff;
if he is not according to the accusation;

they’re not caught up in those things that are clear.
they are not swept away by things that are raised up,

In this way the Independent Perfectly Awakened One doesn’t go.
So even though the Independent Buddha awakened like this it does not come.

How does that Independent Sambuddha come not come from?
How do you not come to an end?

Stream-Entry they have given up defilements. They don’t return to their defilements.
They don’t achieve the path that have been given up in them.

Once-Returner ...
the once-returner ...

Non-Returner ...
the non-returner ...

When they’ve abandoned the path to Worthiness, they don’t go.
They don’t go on the path to perfection, nor don’t get tired.

In this way the Independent Sambuddha didn’t come.
So even though the Independent Buddhas coming,

And after repeating the elephants, he robbs the elephants and horses and mares, and he spends the night in the wilderness and the forest. He roams all at the mad and fro. And he seizes the marriage, and gets the forest remote from human sets out remote lodgings.
After seized the elephants, horses, and carriages, and he goes alone in the wilderness, and having seized the elephants plunged into the wilderness and neck, he seizes them with noises, and he seizes them with horse-hairs and remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest, he seizes them all the way that heat, monuments them. He escorted by pulling them in the wilderness, he enters the forest, sat down alone in the wilderness, and lay life. And he having noighing for the remote lodgings in the forest, he remote lodgingstiles them from human settles in the wilderness and goes alone in the wilderness and goes alone in the wilderness and goes to the wilderness.

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He proceeds alone, and concentrates on walking for alms.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down in private alone; he walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrates on walking mindfully; he walks alone; he walks alone, returns alone, returns alone, sat in private on walking mindfully; he public.

after attacking the elephant,
like an elephant in a poisoned forest,

When he was born, there is a production of magnificent pollutants, started by the Buddha, or that produced by the seven aggregates, thus he is a fully awakened Buddha,; with the knowledge and vision of freedom through freedom of one fully trained.
When born, the dagger’s oppressed, the knowledge and vision of freedom, the knowledge and vision of freedom of one fully trained, and the aggregates, and the knowledge and vision of freedom is unshakable,

When the bloom of the elephant’s teeth is full of the bloom of flowers, there were seven days of scents (in all) faith, energy, mindfulness, immersion, and equanimity.
When the bloated corpse is filled with seven pebbles, and the Indian Rose-Apple Island is drawn out from the awakening factors of the awakening factors of mindfulness, investigation of principles, energy, rapture, tranquility, immersion, and equanimity.

Because of that an elephant’s strength, mung beans, and struggles, and knowledge and vision of freedom.
Because of this, he came to know and see the knowledge and vision of freedom.

born in the womb,
born in a womb, an embankment,

as long as he liked, he stays in the wilderness, just as he wished, so long as he wished, he dwells in the wilderness, autonomous and a Buddha awakened for himself,
“Like as long as he liked, he stays in the wilderness, who is staying in the wilderness, in an elephant forest, encounterned as long as he wished, lived in the wilderness, alone in the wilderness,

And in the first absorption she lived in the wilderness,
also he dwells in the wilderness, just as long as he dwells in the wilderness.

They enter the second absorption ...
For the second absorption ...

and the third absorption ...

They dwell in the fourth absorption in the wilderness,
And he dwells in the fourth absorption in the wilderness,

And so too, when the heart’s release by love he dwells in the wilderness,
dwells in the wilderness, as long as he dwells in the wilderness,

compassion ...

Through the heart’s release by rejoicing ...
for the heart’s release by rejoicing ...

And equanimity too, when it comes to the wilderness,
And he dwells in the wilderness, at ease in that monastery.

Attaining the sphere of endless space he lives in the wilderness,
who dwells in the sphere of endless space, and is dwelling in the wilderness.

for the attainment of the dimension of infinite consciousness ...
for the attainment of the dimension of infinite consciousness,

for the attainment of the dimension of nothingness ...
the dimension of nothingness,

for the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception ...
for the attainment of the dimension of neither perception nor non-perception,

for the attainment of cessation ...
for the attainment of cessation,

in the wilderness, too, they live in the wilderness,
Attaining the attainment of fruit, he dwells in the wilderness,

As long as he liked, dwells alone in the wilderness, in a lake,
Living in the wilderness, staying alone and autonomous in the wilderness,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having left the today, after drinking (nears) poison,
I broke the net of a cow,

born in the womb,
born in a womb, an embankment,

“Like deer in the wilderness,
“Like wish to live in the wilderness,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

he has developed the guilt in company,
for the sake of company,

Whatever contact is experienced by the contact of freedom,
Whatever contact is established in oneself

the sun, having gone beyond the shackle,
as the jackal’s point.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

It’s impossible that you should create freedom from company with the Buddha, freedom from debt, and freedom.
It’s impossible for the Buddha to reject this basic support from the Saṅgha of mendicants:

“Ānanda, a mendicant will get the pleasure of renunciation, the pleasure of seclusion, the pleasure of peace, the pleasure of awakening when they want, without trouble or difficulty.
“Ānanda, a mendicant will get the pleasure of renunciation, the pleasure of seclusion, the pleasure of peace, the pleasure of awakening when they want, without trouble or difficulty. ...

That is not possible.

But when a mendicant lives alone, withdrawn from the group can expect that
But when a mendicant lives alone, withdrawn from the group can expect that mendicant

The pleasure of renunciation, the pleasure of seclusion, the pleasure of peace, the pleasure of awakening when they want, without trouble or difficulty.

It is possible
That is possible.

Ānanda, if a mendicant loves company and groups, who loves them and likes to enjoy them, should take pleasure in being alone in seclusion. They will enter and remain in the freedom of heart—earning that, not committed to the heart, not socializing, and live having achieved what is unshakable.
Ānanda, a mendicant who enjoys company and groups, who loves them and likes to enjoy them, should take pleasure in being alone in the company of the community. They will live having achieved their own heart’s release, regardless of whether they will live or not.

That is not possible.

But it is possible that a mendicant who lives alone, withdrawn from the group will enter and remain in the freedom of heart—either that which is temporary and pleasant, or that which is irreversible and unshakable.”

Whatever nurtures resistance, having contact as their intention, that is promote freedom.
this satisfaction, that ripens in common sense when it comes to contact.

the sun is called the sun’s bondage, of the sun.
the sun is said to be the sun’s shade.

Gotama is his clan.
Gotama is clan by his name.

Gotama was awakened,
the Gotama Independent Sambuddha Gotama

Independent Sambuddha Gotama’s Independent Sambuddha named Gotamī, free from sunset, and collection of the sun.
Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves; a (living) Gotama is the Sun, a (magical) composed.

Getting the scoundrel’s point, having heard the word “rising from the beginning,” then listened to, saying,
(As) bound by the story of the sun, he listens to the rolling on the point of advice, listening to the teacher, and having heard it from their teacher’s doctrine, saying,

the sun (dwells), like a snake, scorpion in bandits,
like the sun (from the sun) and its hide, which is like a bubble,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“The mind has reached maturity,
“What has the company of the people,

Whatever contact is experienced by the contact of freedom,
Whatever contact is established in oneself

the sun, having gone beyond the shackle,
as the jackal’s point.

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

The second sun is incomplete.
The second monk is incomplete.

3. Tatiyavagga

for (my) what is seen and heard,
so that she has seen what is seen,

bent meditating the bowl,
I obtained the bowls,

arisen in the unshakable,
when the enlightenment has arisen

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

He has seen the views, and is called identity view.
He has seen the view of identity views, etc.; he has less than twenty years of seniority.

Take an uneducated ordinary person who has not seen the noble ones, and is neither skilled nor trained in the teaching of the noble ones. They’ve not seen good persons, and are neither skilled nor trained in the teaching of the good persons.

They regard feeling ...

perception ...

They don’t completely understand choices,
They understand choices,

consciousness as self, self as having consciousness, consciousness in self, or self in consciousness.

the recipients of such a view, the recipient, the Fetter, the holding views, the recipient in the lower realm, the opposite sex, the robes, the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong view, and the sixty.
the view of such views, the recipients, the recipients of views, the recipients of the wrong view, the repulsion, the opportunity, the recipients of views, the recipients. From this view gives rise to wrong view. Dependent transmigration, the opposite of the views.

These are the grounds for views.
These are the points of views.

He has seen what he has seen, heard, thought, known, stroked, and excluded from his own view:
He has less than two views: he is going beyond the view of what is seen, heard, thought, or known as lended.

for (my) what is seen and heard,
so that she has seen what is seen,

having obtained the four paths, namely, the four area.
the bowl was obtained by the simile of the four paths, and these are called the four paths.

The noble eightfold path, that is:

right view, right thought, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right immersion.

He has attained what he has attained with the four kinds of contact, he has attained, realized,
They have attained the four noble paths, acquired by the noble path.

I’ve attained the goal,
I’ve attained the goal.

Taking up paths, which takes away the road, and is the wrong path. And what is the wrong path?
What is the path that leads to gain? Rebirth is the path, and what is the wrong path?

bent meditating the bowl,
I obtained the bowls,

When the knowledge was arisen, rebirth into a Buddha awakened for themselves,
so the knowledge that when they arise is arisen, independent Buddhas arise, the knowledge of the arising and rebirth of old age, and death arose,

All conditions are impermanent, suffering, and perishable.
choices that are impermanent, suffering, and perishable.

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

all things are not-self ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

When the enquiry had arisen,
When the Buddha had arisen,

It’s not better to understand that they’re not awakened, and they don’t truly know the other world with their own thoughts.
So they don’t truly know and see the origin of the world that is undeveloped, worried, and attached to others, hurting them, and hurting them.

All conditions are impermanent.
“All conditions are impermanent.” They don’t truly know and see the passing away of others, or to the other world. They don’t truly know and see how sentient beings are attached to their own thoughts.

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

all things are not-self ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Even when one doesn’t truly know and see everything that has a beginning has an end, doesn’t truly know or see in another so as to comprehend the mind, they don’t truly know and see.

Having arisen in the world, one unbound and one, the best,
so undisturbed, spotless, and unshakable,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Nandatures are rotten,
“Form-washing it together, he has envelopsed,

bent meditating the bowl,
I obtained the bowls,

arisen in the unshakable,
when the enlightenment has arisen

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

free of greed, free from hatred, free from delusion,
free of covetousness, free from stain,

stubborn, weariness, and stainless,
wins, above, below, and around;

drunk from the whole world,
droping the whole world,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

free of greed, free from the world, waves, the bonds of craving is called the craving.
while lying down, depressed, with a priceless dropped, the world’s called craving.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

It’s been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated so it’s unable to arise in the future.
That craving is cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

That’s why the Independent Sambuddha was free from sleeping,
That’s why the Independent Sambuddha is free from delusion,

Three grounds for deceiving postures:
Three grounds for laziness.

what is reckoned as a plantain is reckoned by what is reckoned as a corpse, dropped in opposite, and what is called indirect talk,
the basis of psychic power that is indirect talk, in opposing, and indirect talk, indirectly based on the basis of psychic power, and the deportment is indirect talk,

What is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites?

It’s when a mendicant resigns robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And they resigned robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
It’s when a mendicant receives robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick. And they renounce the training when they want, without robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“What’s an ascetic of robe for an ascetic?
“What’s the point of this robe-cloth?

using this heartwood, regardless of whether or not he has made a bad karma.
using this heartwood, a corrupt magistrate, a dog’s settle, or a rubbish deer hint, and crushing the upper robe.

What’s an ascetic of almsfood?
what’s an ascetic to do with expensive alms-food?

will be bitter, making a living for the ascetic,
this is a vowel, a lump of meat, a buffalo, poison,

What’s an ascetic, with expensive dwellings,
what’s an ascetic’s dwelling?

This ascetic or brahmin might have the same tree as multiplicator, or a messenger.
This ascetic or brahmin ...

What’s an ascetic of medicines?
What’s the point of requisites for the sick?

this ascetic mustard seeds that are carrying away, burning, boiled rice, or stumps.”
this is a vow’s belt, pillow, and creepers.”

Accordingly he wears a coarse robe, eats coarse alms-food, wears rag robes, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
Accordingly he wears a coarse robe, eats coarse alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

householders know
The brahmins and householders know

“This ascetic has few wishes, who is content, secluded, energetic, and mindful,”
“This ascetic is content, is secluded, he’s energetic; he’s energetic; he’s energetic; he’s energetic.”

and they invite him more and more to accept robes, almsfood, dwellings, and medicines.
and they invite him more and more to accept robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

He replied,
The learned monk replied,

“Stop when three things are present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit. And he’s faithful, confused, and esteemed.
“Puṇṇa, when three things are present, a faithful gentleman makes much merit. When someone with faith and confidence are present, he makes much merit for a faithful gentleman:

You have faith, conscience, prudence, energy, and wisdom; and I receive the recipients of those who don’t.
You have faith; he sends them away, and the receiver is an unprincipled.

If I don’t receive it, you’ll have a merit.
If I don’t receive it, you’ll keep it away.

I’ve no use for them.
And I don’t need any harm for me.

Rather will I accept out of compassion for you.”
Rather, I accept out of compassion for you.”

At that time he receives many robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
a little robe that he receives much almsfood, receives many almsfood, and accepts many almsfood.

Such grimacing, schemery, bitter, and deceitful.
Such grimacing, schemery, and endeavour.

This is the instance of scheming called rejection of requisites.

What is the ground of deportment?
What is the ground for deportment?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” composes his way of walking, composes his way of lying down; he walks studiedly, stands studiedly, sits studiedly, lies down stabilizedly, and concentrates as though concentrated.
It’s when someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Thus people will admire me,” while walking, standing, sitting, sleeping, and embarrassing. He stands stabilized thus: “Suching, sits stabilizedly, lies down stabilizedly, stands as though with immersed in samādhi.

Such kind of grimacing, schemery, deceptive, schemery, and endeavour.
Such particular postures are the bent on the walk, a disturbance, scheming, and anguishment, saying,

This is the ground for example, based on the path,
This is the ground for deportment.

What is being indirect?
What is talking about in accordance with what is talking about in accordance with the intention?

Here someone of evil wishes, a prey to wishes, eager to be admired, thinking “Though I have done away with the teaching, they speak in line with the teaching of the noble ones.”
It’s when someone with bad desires, he speaks thus: “My influence is liable to obtain me, he speaks contrary to the noble state.”

if he says, “He who wears such a robe,”
“He who wears such a robe, he uses it,”

‘They used such bowls.’ ...
‘They use a bowl without robes ...

gracefully ...
a red bucket,

but they remember the teaching ...
remembering the teachings,

a water filter ...

a necklace,

sandals,

a belt with blade ...
a belt,

metal as a illustrious ascetic, then indeed.”
who wears a valuable ascetic, speaks a large very illustrious,”

if he says, “He’s a preceptor,”
“He says that such a preceptor.”

“Sure is such a teacher. ...
my teacher’s doctrine ...

so-and-so’s co-student ...
that kind of co-student is sort of person ...

your co-pupil ...

friends ...

who take pleasure in him ...
taken assemblies ...

... etc.
...”

He says a great ascetic!”
if he says, “He’s a large,”

saying: “One who lives in such a dwelling ...
the same kind of dwelling ...

if he stays in the household life, then for the sake of wealth ...
if he stays at the house of a house ...

stayed in the longhouse together,
stayed in the longhousehold ...

I’m living at home with them ...
‘I’m staying in a magician’ ...

giving away ...
your secret oppressed by the nose ...

if he stays at the wrong time;
if she stays at the wrong time;

if he stays in the hut;
if the upper story is due to a hut ...

dwellings in a bungalow ...
a bungalow, a roof-peak,

If he stays right there, but he is unsure of it ...
the embarrassed ...

by Māra ...
your matted like a magic tried ...

dwellings ...
you stay with the hunter.

the assembly hall together with the assembly hall.
the assembly hall.

who stays in the forest,
who stays under a roof-cover,

if he touches the tree too far, he says, “I’m a huge ascetic”;
he touches the tree too far, he says this.”

Or alternatively, all-gushing, all-grimacing, with an expression of a hide, with a bronze bowl like an ascetic who scenery, embarrass and water, thinking: “This ascetic is peaceful and sublime, who has attained such a deep,
Or he is an expert splendid, Victorious, drawing loud and all-knowing, all-seeing, thinking “This ascetic is deep, hard to obtain, fully expression, fully expressed in this way, ‘This ascetic is an obtainer of the supernormal power, surpassing the supernormal powers.”

Such grimacing, schemery, scheming, schemery, schemedness, is known as the indirect talk,
Such talk in the Kuṭikaputta is aroused by indolence, this is the indirect talk, this is the basis for ending.

These three fully awakened Buddhas have given up three knowledges, when they’ve cut off the opposite sex,
These are the three Buddhas—they’ve given up the fetters, the infatuated, the Commentaries, the six insights, and the knowledges—these are dispelled, looking away and falling away.

therefore the Independent Buddhas were awakened as a position,
Therefore it is the Independent Buddhas, just as a woken.

the palace of (for you), of craving.
the Grasping of craving is called craving.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

Also the Palace of Principle has been given up by the Buddha, cut it off at the root, made it like a palm stump, obliterated it, so it’s unable to arise in the future.
Also loved by craving is given up; cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

That’s why he has awakened to a Buddha awakened for himself:
That’s why the Independent Buddha awakened for themselves.

free of greed, free from hatred, free from delusion,
free of covetousness, free from stain,

the ignoble, and the outcome of blame,
wins, above, below, and around;

The raising of Makkhali is finished.
The construction of Makkhali is a denigration through the conclusion of Makkhali Gosāla, the action of the noble ones.

Cannot, hate, and delusion?
When anywhere, greed, hate, and delusion are strong and delusion. ...

offensive ...
anger ...

(There is) wholesome intentions in the mirror of intentions,
through the wholesome intentions,

not knowing about suffering, the origin of suffering, the cessation of suffering, and the practice that leads to the cessation of suffering.

That kind of unknownness, not seeing the underlying tendency to ignorance, the underlying tendency to ignorance, the cognorance, and the ignorant, unconfused, and ignorance.
Such is the underlying tendencies of loath, not falling downwards, deluded, ignorant, not falling into confusion. Ignorance, views, doubt, conceit, the underlying tendency to ignorance, the root of ignorance, and the eradication of ignorance. Delusion is ignorance, unprofitable, ignorance. Delusion is their root, and ignorance.

From that Sambuddha Kapilavatthu a light, dispelled, destroyed, broken, sleepiness, discovered, exceedingly wounded, (from).
The Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves; the independent Buddhas dispelled their confusion and the way they’ve discovered the succession of knowledge and vision, and the enlightenment.

Independent Perfectly Awakened One, (that) grieved),
the Independent Sambuddha named Paccekabuddha, who was low,

having driven out the whole world, they are called craving.
having destroyed the whole world, the craving for continued existence is called craving.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

in the whole world looking around the whole world in all world.
in the whole world with its gods,

They’ve escaped the whole world. They have no underlying tendency to craving for continued existence.
Who has dyed the whole world, then having destroyed the world, returned to rebirth in the world, become a terminator of existence.

driven away from all worlds, free of (all) existence, dead in the world,
having destroyed all world’s world, one day and like the sun,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One without knocking, having no anger,
“Lust-free, free from delusion,

stubborn, weariness, and stainless,
wins, above, below, and around;

drunk from the whole world,
droping the whole world,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

you should scorch your friend;
you should scatter me today.

unsteady intent on chanting, uneven ground,
unsteady, ignorant,

Not doing (it) he does not do,
you do not practice according to what is suitable,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

You should shun the one with bad friends.
you should avoid one friend with bad friends.

But anyone who has ten qualities is called debtlessness.
For one who has a bad friends, companions, and associates.

There’s no meaning in giving, sacrifice, or offerings. There’s no fruit or result of good and bad deeds. There’s no afterlife. There are no duties to mother and father. No beings are reborn spontaneously. And there’s no ascetic or brahmin who is well attained and practiced, and who describes the afterlife after realizing it with their own insight.
There’s no meaning in giving, sacrifice, or offerings. There’s no fruit or result of good and bad deeds. There’s no afterlife. There’s no obligation to mother and father. No beings are reborn spontaneously. And there’s no ascetic or brahmin who is well attained and practiced, and who describes the afterlife after realizing it with their own insight.

This is the bad fortune.
This is the evil with bad friends.

You should shun the one with bad friends.
you should avoid one friend with bad friends.

Person services for his friends:
Someone with bad friends accuses them like this:

you should scorch your friend;
you should scatter me today.

There are ten kinds of unbeneficiality:
They have untornness, discovered the degree of worry, and wrong view.

There’s no meaning in giving, etc.
There’s no meaning in giving, sacrifice, or offerings.

And those who, having directly realised it with their deep knowledge, make known this world and the next world.
and those who, themselves having directly realised it with their own insight,

They lie down embracing and undisturbed. They maliciously disturbed. They maliciously driven out from killing living creatures. And they do not kill living creatures, steal, commit sexual misconduct, and lie.
They rough actually displayed, malicious, and cruel deeds. They View, View, Mindful, and loose-tongued, repulsion and intercourse. And they Viewsing the five hindrances, malicious tangled on topics.

unsteady intent on chanting, uneven ground,
unsteady, ignorant,

they don’t do the same,
if they do not practice themselves,

If someone seeks for sensual pleasures, they seek for what is. They seek out what is better, committed to.
They seek for what is beneficial for sensual pleasures. They seek for what is better, committed to inaction, and examining in the same way.

One who seeks out craving for forms,
The one who seeks out craving in regard to form,

sounds ...
When sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They seek for the touches, committed to the practice of self-mortification. They delight in that same way, when it comes to that which is more peaceful and subtle that which is better.
They seek for themselves to be committed to the practice of touches. The mortification in disgust of sin he is introduced in the life of purity. Intentionality, they delight in sensual pleasures.

And the one who obtains craving for forms receives.
envy craving in the forms.

sounds ...
When sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They obtain complete in touches, the self-mortification. They’re expelled by the mortification in sensual pleasures, and they’re committed to it.
He obtains (them) in the same way, the austerity to him; the mortification in the same way intent upon which he was liked

One who enjoys craving in regard to the forms,
He who enjoys craving in regard to forms,

sounds ...
When sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They enjoy touches, committed to the practice ofusterity, infatuated by that. They committed to the practice of mortification in sensual pleasures, and so on.
They enjoy tangibles, the self-mortification in the body, the self-mortification, which is better for him, committed to inaction, and so on.

As a quarrelsome works argumentative, workers, (good) conduct, resort, lord of death and equanimity,
He just as the domesticated mass of work, (where) workers, workers from the palace, sovereignty workers, lones in absorption,

In the same way, someone seeks for sensual pleasures, seeks out by means of that, when it comes to that same life, is committed to intent on the same way.
In the same way, seeks for what is beneficial. Whatever goes on the ground isn’t worth a sixteenth part of the sensual pleasures.

The craving that comes to form ...
The one who seeks out craving for forms,

And it is also gained by craving for sights ...
The arising of craving for sights ...

One who enjoys craving in regard to the forms,
He who enjoys craving in regard to forms,

sounds ...
When sounds ...

smells ...

tastes ...

They enjoy touches, committed to the practice ofusterity, infatuated by that. They committed to the practice of mortification in sensual pleasures, and so on.
They enjoy tangibles, the self-mortification in the body, the self-mortification, which is better for him, committed to inaction, and so on.

do not acts like this.
if they are able to do the same,

Or he can say such things as bad bodily, verbal, or mental conduct.
he is able to say that bad conduct by way of body, speech, and mind, and the five kinds of sensual stimulation are able to get rid of the five kinds of sensual stimulation. Or the five kinds of sensual stimulation in the evening, the laziness of the noble ones, the fullness of the noble ones, the arrogant, the teaching, the Your hymns, and wrong view. Yourselfall getting rid of any such things as the noble ones.

This is called negligence.
This is called the negligence.

You shouldn’t do the same thing, nor should you cultivate it. You don’t conduct yourself to self-control. You should not cultivate it or do what you’ve done. You wouldn’t associate with, nor will they proceed to undertake it.
You don’t associate with someone else, or do what you do. You shouldn’t associate with, and don’t cultivate them. You shouldn’t undertake and follow the practices you.

(The Buddha) does not do the same thing, and one abstaining from strings,
one should not practice (to others), one should live himself in a pond.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Dwell (with you) wicked friends,
“Today friend, one should spike a friend,

unsteady intent on harm, free of doubt,
unsteady, ignorant,

Not doing (it) he does not do,
you do not practice according to what is suitable,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

If you associate with the teaching,
A wise person should cultivate the teaching,

who have great wisdom,

you are doubting about those that are other,
you’ve got rid of doubts.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

One who has learned much, one who retains and accumulates what he has learned. They remember what he has heard, one who collects what he has heard,
You’re very learned and remembering what you’ve learned. You’re very learned, remembering and keeping what you’ve learned.

...

They remember the teaching as if they were taught.
They remember the teaching,

statements, songs, discussions, verses, inspired exclamations, legends, stories of past lives, amazing stories, and classifications.

When you’re learned, you’ll make use of the teaching and frequent, and associate with friends and colleagues, relatives and kin.
You should frequently enjoy the blessing of the teaching, the good with bad friends, and companions with bad friends. You should frequently enjoy them,

If you associate with the teaching,
A wise person should cultivate the teaching,

Reflecting friends and colleagues, relatives and knowledge and vision of freedom.
He has great wisdom, (and) he is endowed with great virtue, concentration and knowledge and vision of freedom.

There are three kinds of radiance:
There are three kinds of light:

His questions are divided, eloquent, andeloquent.
the eloquence of meaning is that he should be pressed and eloquent of that.

What is the exposition?
What is the way of eloquence?

If someone memorizes the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha in prosecution with verses, exclamations, quotations, birth stories, amazing accounts, and analyses;
Or take someone whose verse was spoken in the Buddha’s instructions, verses, inspired exclamations, quotations, birth stories, amazing accounts, and analyses;

supported by him,
he supported him in the same way.

This is the exposition concerning the teaching.
this is the way of eloquence.

What is proper for questioning?
What is the questioning of the accused?

It’s when someone asks about something, etc., or has the characteristics and because of their reason.
It’s when someone asks about what is going on both sides and what is possible in the procedure.

Experiencing him about this,
Relying on this he asks question,

This is the hide of questioning.
This is the exposition that should be responsible.

What is the acceptance of a distinct?
What is the right way?

He has attained the four kinds of mindfulness meditation, the four right efforts, the four bases of psychic power, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven awakening factors, and the noble eightfold path.
He has attained the four kinds of mindfulness meditation. ...

His relatives is the truth, Dhamma is well-known.
It is the meaning of that relative is well-known.

It is indeed the meaning, the teaching, and the well-known family.
It is indeed the meaning, the teaching, the Dhamma, and the usual way.

Knowledge of these three knowledges,
the knowledge of these three analytical knowledges,

With this analytical knowledge, they’re endowed with laughing loving kindness, arisen in regard to fathoming.
The Independent Sambuddha, having entered upon the analytical knowledge, endowed with regard to this progress.

Therefore a Independent Sambuddha,
Therefore one Independent Sambuddha

whoever has no questions, whether there is no choice, no fame, and including,
who can lend an ear, he does not get rid of it, nor can he agree with him?

who have great wisdom,

enlightenment needs to dispel your doubt. Practicing your own good, the meaning of what is beneficial in this very life, and then give them up. He would get rid of repulsion and discover what is beneficial, and then give them to do what is beneficial.
Then they’d know the benefit of self-mortification in the present life, having given up doubt, dispelling encounteration, and having directly known, having directly known, attained the ultimate goal, and having given up attachment to others. You might dispell them, and make an end of suffering. You might dispell them, and you would give them up.

she has expelled doubts, each one with stubbornment and bubbling.
there is no doubt in the home, one poison, one with the sword and self-controlled.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“When you’re learned, you should keep company with the teaching,
“When you’re very learned, remembering the teaching,

who have great wisdom,

you are doubting about those that are other,
you’ve got rid of doubts.

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

practised over the world,
clinging to the pleasures of the world,

unconcerned, without having looked down on him,
Not having destroyed his doubts,

who speaks truthfully, who speaks the truth,
The truthful, liberated, for truth,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

practised over the world,
But the pleasures of the world beyond,

consumed by two _paṇḍakas_:
and the two burning:

crows, vultures, herons, dogs, jackals, and many others.
crows, vultures, hawks, dogs, jackals, and crashing.

This is the construction ...
The Kāṇāgamana was thrown away. ...

This is the words “you should throw away!”
This is the rinsing sun.

they lose their thorns.
it’s qualified, with a thorny offense.

Delights:

For this is what the Buddha calls a sensual pleasure.
For this is what the Buddha calls sensual pleasure.

“Mendicants, there are these five kinds of sensual stimulation.

What are the five?
What five?

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

Sounds known by the ear ...

Smells known by the nose ...

tastes known by the tongue ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

these, monks, are the five strands of sense pleasure.
These are the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

The pleasure and happiness that arise from these five kinds of sensual stimulation is called sensual pleasure.”

He leads to the world of the gods:
A world in the world of the human realm:

practised over the world,
clinging to the pleasures of the world,

Having destroyed the sky, they abandoned the senses and eat the crops, and then give them up, they gave them up, get rid of, eliminate them, and obliterate them.
Having destroyed without scratching, he still gave up the pleasure in the world, having destroyed his broken through the Master’s neck. He then, having cut off the crooks, gave them up, and gone to the underworld.

unconcerned, without having looked down on him,
Not having destroyed his doubts,

The truthful, having false, thus he is truthful,
The one who spokes truth, who speaks the truth,

Two grounds:
Two grounds for disparage.

There is no storehouse where there is (surely) no storehouses, no danger,
there are wilderness dwellings, possessed of variety,

What is the footprint?
What is the household life?

head hair, body hair, nails, teeth, skin, flesh, sinews, bones, bone marrow, kidneys, heart, liver, diaphragm, scents, wore garlands, fragrances, and makeup; face-powder, foundation, bracelets, headbands, fancy walking-sticks or containers, rapiers, parasols, fancy sandals, jewelry, and long-fringed white robes.
The head hair and beard, dresses in unguarding garlands, fragrances, and makeup, and garlands, perfumes, and garlands, perfumes, and garlands, perfumes, and makeup, and clothes, garlands, perfumes, and cosmetics. It is the wretches, jewels, and chowries, and makeup clothes, and jewels of jungles, and heartwood.

This cowherd’s wealth.
this cowherd’s home is devious.

What are the household lifetimes?
What is the ninety-three?

The making portions of a storm-cloud man’s lodgings, infested with thick clay picked up a furniture, a piece of turmeric decorated with flame, a hole-covering cloth, and adornments.
Discussion on the ground, the eggs, the furniture was used for defecating, and the jujube seeds, turban for these reasons.

this homeless life.
this cowherd’s dwelling place.

Saccaka’s words. He speaks the truthful truthfully and true to the truth. He’s honest and trustworthy, uncorrupted, with a mind that’s free from know. He lives detached from the world, liberated, free of limits.
They say: ‘This one is awakened, one who speaks the truth, the one whose voice is honest and trustworthy, the one whose mind is awakened gives rise to the truth, but that is unknown, living independent, detached, liberated, with a mind free of limits.’

Immediately truthful, listed, and devious,
(living in) arguing, he speaks the truth, (anything):

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One should burn up the pleasures of the senses,
“Having thrown away the pleasures of the world,

unconcerned, without having looked down on him,
Not having destroyed his doubts,

who speaks truthfully, who speaks the truth,
The truthful, liberated, for truth,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

a child, and a mother and father.
a child, mother and father,

wealthy, archers, and bandits,
wealthy, binding things,

Giving up sensual pleasures, and having no attachments,
Having abandoned the pleasures of sense pleasures,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

and a child, his mother and father.
and a child, mother and father.

Four children:

son of the world, the son of a son, was given to him.
the son of a son, a son of the bondservant,

wife is what is meant.
The wife is what is meant.

a person who’s father,
he who is a personalert,

the mother of her parents
the mother of the people.

a child, and a mother and father.
a child, mother and father,

wealthy, bandits, riches, quartz, corals, silver, gold, ruby, and cat’s eyes.
They are the beryl treasures, wealthy, and gold—they are called silver, gold, silver, beryl, and crystal.

cognized grains and vegetables are called:
These are what are called the grains of vegetables;

grains, whisperings, and tail-footed, (and) Kurakutthā,
Puṇṇa, Sāli, Aṅgīrasa, the leader of the ankle, the herd,

Learning forwards:
frequented by garments:

Four kinds of bonds:
Four bonds:

Bandits, relatives, kin, and kin are bound by bondservants.
For one who kinsman and kinsmans, kinsmans, bonds, workers, and staff; bonds, jails, and kinsmans—

wealthy, archers, and bandits,
wealthy, binding things,

Having given up the pleasures of sense desires,
Having left the pleasures of sense desires, the state of excess.

sensual pleasures:
Sensual pleasures are give:

They want to site for objects and objects for objects.
They desire for objects and defilements. ...

These are said to be the basis for objects.
These are called the opposite sex. ...

These are called the defilements.
These are said to be the defilements.

Having given up sense desires, etc., and defilement, discovered, and given up the defilements, they give up defilements and cut off,
Having given up sense desires, having given up sense desires, dispelled the defilements of sensual desire, and, without having given up them up, they depart.

Having given up the defilements of sensuality, they don’t get the defilements that subsistantively. They don’t return to their defilements.
Having given up the defilements of sensual pleasures, they don’t get a tied, infected, or reject the path.

Once-Returner, those who have given up defilements,
... once-returner ... they have given up defilements ...

Non-Returner, those who have given up defilements,
... those who are Non-Returner ...

They haven’t abandoned the path to Worthiness, and they don’t return to their defilements.
They don’t achieve the path that leads to perfection, and they don’t go in some place where these defilements are given up.

Having abandoned sensual pleasures, having destroyed the mass of fire, one with big and decorated.
Having abandoned the pleasures of sense pleasures, one with abstaining from blazing (?),

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Body, after Mother and Father,
“Even Consort, a mother,

wealthy, archers, and bandits,
wealthy, binding things,

Giving up sensual pleasures, and having no attachments,
Having abandoned the pleasures of sense pleasures,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

This is the criminal of the meaning,
This is the cause of safeguard.

therefore few is little suffering here,
Weighing little is more than suffering;

Knowing that he is a fool,
Knowing this is the mortal,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

This is a term for the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
This is a term for the ending of the sensual stimulation.

In this matter the Buddha says that
The Buddha spoke of safeguarding:

“Mendicants, there are these five kinds of sensual stimulation.

What are the five?
What five?

Sights known by the eye that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing. ...

Touches known by the body that are likable, desirable, agreeable, pleasant, sensual, and arousing.

these, monks, are the five strands of sense pleasure.
These are the five kinds of sensual stimulation.

The pleasure and happiness that arise from these five kinds of sensual stimulation is called sensual pleasure.

This is a little pleasure, happiness, and a happy life.”
This is a little pleasure, and a little happiness, this is the extermination.”

This is the criminal of the meaning,
This is the cause of safeguard.

but the Buddha says that sensual pleasures give little gratification and much suffering and distress, and they are all the more full of drawbacks.
similar to a poor tangle ...

the danger here is the disadvantages here,
drawbacks here and there.

With the Buddha says that sensual pleasures give little gratification and much suffering and distress, and they are all the more full of drawbacks.
With the similes of a skeleton ... a butcher’s knife and chopping block ... a staking sword ... a snake’s head, the Buddha says that sensual pleasures give little gratification and much suffering and distress, and they are all the more full of drawbacks.

therefore few is little suffering here,
Weighing little is more than suffering;

Knowing this is a term for the five kinds of sensual stimulation.
This is a term for the five kinds of aggregates, namely, clans, swords, spears, arrows, or a nest.

the Pokkharasāti Declaress in this way, the lotus ponds overpower, and the lotus phrases it.
the successively steps from the back of the lotus ponds, full of rain, phrases, and lotus ponds; and the cracked bathing phrases are.

The wise One who possesses wisdom (their) knowledge, wise man onwards),
The wise one is wise, learned, wise, and intelligent (in knowledge): “A wise man, endowed with knowledge of the development and wisdom,

He knows what is thinking. He knows that he is thinking, and considering thus, “He does not know,” “Noble ones,” and he does know, “Different,” “Knoy it,” and knowing that I had fever.”
He knew that he was considering, the monkey, having known, found out about the stain of materiality, thinking, “I found it.” He understood the nurse,,, having understood the Death, and having removed it, after considered it, he lifted it (they),

Knowing that the bird was hunger and thirst, yet single blazing and turbans.
Knowing this, the leader of the bitter, stainless and small,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“This is the little bit of the radiant.
“This is the little blessing.

therefore few is little suffering here,
Weighing little is more than suffering;

Knowing that he is a fool,
Knowing this is the mortal,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

and caught up in reference,
and having consumed the fetters

My net was tender hands and feet cut down,
My net was terrified, and plucking down with their hands,

like a fire-brand, seeing no more.
like a fine chariot drawn in the wood,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

After referring to all ten fetters
Sandaka, after roaming the ten fetters

The fetters of sensuality, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.
The fetters of sensuality, desire to be reborn, views, and ignorance.

Sandha, after giving up the ten fetters, and then give them up, they gave them up, get rid of them, and eliminate them, saying,
But when this happens, after having given up the ten fetters, he gave them up, gets rid of them, eliminates them, and obliterates them.

and caught up in reference,
and having consumed the fetters

ropes after breaking the rose-apples is called mangoes.
The Simile of the rose-apple tree is called “first”.

a drop of water is what is meant.
a cotton is what is meant.

a miserable mango is what is meant.
a misfortune is what is meant.

Just as a dead and fishes it, he snaps it off, and then netwly breaks it up, gets rid of it, and lives untouched.
Just as a catching fish, having broken through the drums, split the opposite sewer, he slits it, and when he falls down the cracking them, he falls from the lay life to homelessness.

Craving, rebirth, and view. ...
Craving and net of craving ...

That’s how craving is born. ...
This is the net of craving. ...

this is a ground for view.
this is the extent of view.

Independent Sambuddha’s born, is produced by craving, has given up view,
The Independent Buddha has given up craving for views, has given up craving for views.

When craving is given up, they don’t repay it. They don’t desire it or greed for sights.
When you’ve given up craving there is no coming to because of the Buddhas’ views repelled. Independent Buddhas you don’t attacknowledge.

He doesn’t sit withdrawn in regard to things that are seen, heard, or suspected. He doesn’t cling, he stays with a mind free of oppressed, detached from the mind.
He is committed to the seen enlightenment in things that are to say. He doesn’t feel discovered. He doesn’t stay in the middle of the day or today, he stays secluded, liberated, his mind is undisturbed, and he lives with his heart end.

My net was tender hands and feet cut down,
My net was terrified, and plucking down with their hands,

Only this day they’re seen, striving without attachments, and they’ve given up the stream-entry. There’s no way they don’t realize the undefiled path that they’re dissatisfied with their own defilements.
Only a heap of grass they’re dragging around, they don’t go back from a fire, the lay life to homelessness. So too, the Buddhas don’t realize the undefiled freedom of heart and freedom by wisdom in this very life. And they don’t get the path to a perfected one.

...
the path of non-returner ...

They haven’t abandoned the path to Worthiness, and they don’t return to their defilements.
They don’t achieve the path that leads to perfection, and they don’t go in some place where these defilements are given up.

like a firebrand, wandering alone, with no constricting tips,
like a spoon the tip of the tongue, alone like a bubble, unshaken seed-headed Leaven carcas.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Delighting out the fetters,
“Having given up desire for rebirth,

My net was tender hands and feet cut down,
My net was terrified, and plucking down with their hands,

like a fire-brand, seeing no more.
like a fine chariot drawn in the wood,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

But the eyes that are clear, and the foot-salve.
But the eyes are not held,

guarded, protected, and restrained,
guarded, protected by senses, guarded,

Not lustful, without defilements,
Without lust, without lust,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

And when the eye is neither too straight nor too hot,
And how does the eye not become clear?

It’s when a mendicant has the eyes,
It may be that someone with eye is shameful.

seen, heard, and thought,
He should be seen, heard, thought, or known:

In the monastery of the Buddhas wandered to villages, towns, and countries; in a villages, towns, and countries; in a town where he is transmigrated.
if he is wandering in the monastery of the park; he is going to a village; he’s wandering in the country; he’s committed to a village; he’s not looking like a bed; he is committed to a village in the country like a lake.

Thus the eye of the earlier
That’s how there is the eye of those who see.

Or they walk restrained in inhabited areas, restrained while walking in an inhabited area.
Then, without having entered an inhabited area withinstressed,

looking around the elephant, looking around the elephant, looking ahead, looking around the bowl, and looking around.
looking around the elephant, without looking around the elephant, looking around the chariot, looking at the top of the bowl, looking at the end of a woman, looking around the bowl, looking at the top, looking at the harem, looking down the elephant, looking up, looking up, and looking around the private parts.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.
When a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they get caught up in the features and details.

Since the faculty of sight is left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion become overwhelming. They don’t practice restraint, they don’t protect the faculty of sight, and they don’t achieve its restraint.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

“Those dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.
“I dancing, singing, music, performances, and storytelling; clapping, gongs, and kettledrums; art exhibitions and acrobatic displays; battles of elephants, horses, buffaloes, bulls, goats, rams, chickens, rams, and quails; staff-fights, boxing, and wrestling; combat, roll calls of the armed forces, battle-formations, and regimental reviews.

They love such a kind of showing.
Such is the kind of instruction.

That’s how there is the eye.
This too is how there is the eye of the ear.

How does one become with vision?
How is there one with vision?

It’s when a mendicant doesn’t have the eyes,
It may be that someone is not the eye, nor has the eye faculty.

seen, heard, and thought,
He should be seen, heard, thought, or known:

In the monastery, the city of Rāma, was going to the village for alms to the town, and to the villages, towns, and cities.
They’re not committed to the monastery of the city of Rāmagāma. They’re walking in the town of the villages, towns, cities, and countless ways in a village. They’re walking in a town or a city.

Thus there is one with vision,
Thus there is the eye of the ears.

Or alternatively, they go into an inhabited area with best me,
Then a mendicant enters an inhabited area with energy

When he looks around the elephant, he does not look to an elephant, without looking a horse, a carriage, a boy, looking at him, and not looking ahead. He does not look down, not looking down, not looking down, and stars in front of me, having stopped her, he does not look down, not looking down, not looking down, not stars a box,
looking around the elephant, without looking for a horse, not looking around the bowl, when looking around the elephant, not looking a horse, the chariot, or the prince looking down.

Thus this is how there is the eye of one who possesses.
That too is how there is the one with vision.

Or they see a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.
If a mendicant sees a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, they practice restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving its restraint.
If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, he practices restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving restraint over it.

Thus this is how there is the eye of one who possesses.
That too is how there is the one with vision.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who, while enjoying food given in faith, still engage in seeing shows.

dancing, singing, music, and seeing shows;

They refrain from such shows.

Thus this is how there is the eye of one who possesses.
That too is how there is the one with vision.

And how is one not a foot-spoken feet?
And how is an outcaste not a footprint?

It’s when a mendicant has feet:

In the monastery, or in the vicinity of a monastery, he villages, towns, cities, and countries.
if he is wandering in the monastery of a village, he is committed to the city of Unalā; he is committed to the village of town and country; he is committed to noisy, in such village or town, the country, and he is committed to influence.

That’s how there is a lamp.
That’s how there is a step.

Then there’s a mendicant whose mind is impressive for one-stool, puts down a stilt longhouse, wrapped in a bunch, and swimming both. While walking on the ground, they go to the root of a tree, or a bungalow with a spot. And they walk in the middle of the day, where there is a swift stream.
Then, when a mendicant has walked down the edge of the robe, they walk for the sake of their feet, scattering the feet, the trees on the ground, under a roof-cover, or a carpets, or anything elsewhere there.

There they are much talking nonsense. such as
There they talk nonsense, that is:

talk about kings, bandits, and ministers ...

They talk about continuity regarding existence.
He talks about profit and talk about existence.

That’s how there is a lamp.
That’s how there is a step.

And they don’t neglect retreat, committed to the practice of enjoying retreat and discomfort. They neglect retreat, they’re committed to inspire confidence in those without it, and they enjoy retreat.
And they don’t neglect retreat, they’re committed to the looking forwards of the feet, bent down by the tip of the hair, bearing the wide, they’re committed to inner serenity of the heart, they neglect absorption, they’re committed to internal serenity of the heart, they frequent empty huts.

But the eyes that are clear, and the foot-salve.
But the eyes are not held,

guarded, protected, and restrained,
guarded, protected by senses, protected by the wise,

When they see a sight with their eyes, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, they practice restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving its restraint.
If the faculty of sight were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, he practices restraint, protecting the faculty of sight, and achieving restraint over it.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

When they smell an odor with their nose ...

Tasting a flavor with the tongue ...
Tasting a flavor with their tongue ...

Feeling a touch with the body ...
When we feel a touch with our body ...

Knowing a thought with their mind, they don’t get caught up in the features and details.

If the faculty of mind were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, they practice restraint, protecting the faculty of mind, and achieving its restraint.
If the faculty of mind were left unrestrained, bad unskillful qualities of desire and aversion would become overwhelming. For this reason, he practices restraint, protecting the faculty of mind, and achieving restraint over it.

guarded, protected, and restrained.
guarded by the senses,

For one who has protected guards, protection, safety, and denigration,
One who protects one who has protected and guards, and thinks:

guarded, protected, and restrained,
guarded, protected by senses, guarded,

Unsullied, they could ask Venerable Mahāmoggallāna
Venerable Mahāmoggallāna, while he was uneducated, he asks Venerable Mahāmoggallāna

“Reverends, I will teach you the exposition and the teaching on the uneducated.
“Reverend, I will teach you the annihilation and the exposition not the teaching.

Listen and pay close attention, I will speak.”

“Yes, reverend,” they replied.

Venerable Mahāmoggallāna said this:
Venerable Mahāmoggallāna said to him,

“And how is someone corrupt?

Take a mendicant who sees a sight with the eye. If it’s pleasant they hold on to it, but if it’s unpleasant they dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body unestablished and their heart restricted.

And they don’t understand ...

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

know a thought with the mind. If it’s pleasant they hold on to it, but if it’s unpleasant they dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body unestablished and a limited heart.
When they know a thought with their mind, if it’s pleasant they hold on to it, but if it’s unpleasant they dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body unestablished and a limited heart.

And they don’t understand ...

This is called a mendicant who is corrupt when it comes to sights known by the eye,

thoughts known by the mind.

When a mendicant lives like this, if Māra comes at them through the eye he finds a vulnerability and gets hold of them.

If they agree with the ear ...
They’d look down on an ear ...

mind he finds a vulnerability and gets hold of them.

Suppose there was a house made of reeds or straw that was dried up, withered, and decrepit.

If a person came to it with a burning grass torch from the east,

Even if it’s in the west ...
self-control in the west ...

northern quarter ...

or south ...
If they are worthy of a religious donation ...

If the lower direction ...
above, below to the lower direction ...

standing in the upper direction ...

or from anywhere, the fire would find a vulnerability, it would get a foothold.

In the same way, when a mendicant lives like this, if Māra comes at them through the eye he finds a vulnerability and gets hold of them.

If they agree with the ear ...
They’d look down on an ear ...

mind he finds a vulnerability and gets hold of them.

When a mendicant lives like this, they’re mastered by sights,

the sounds ...
You don’t master these things.

a mendicant gains the smell of taste,
when you’re mastered by smells, you don’t master that mendicant,

a mendicant delights in taste, not mastered by tastes,
a mendicant mastered the taste of solid nectar,

and touches don’t master them.
you’re not mastered by touches, mendicant.

and thoughts, they don’t master these things.

This is called a mendicant who has been mastered by sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. They’re mastered, not a master. Bad, unskillful qualities have mastered them, which are defiled, leading to future lives, hurtful, and resulting in suffering and future rebirth, old age, and death.
This is called a mendicant who has been mastered by sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts. They’re a master, not a master. Bad, unskillful qualities have mastered them, which are defiled, leading to future lives, hurtful, and resulting in suffering and future rebirth, old age, and death.

That’s how someone is corrupt.

And how is someone uncorrupted?

Take a mendicant who sees a sight with the eye. If it’s pleasant they don’t hold on to it, and if it’s unpleasant they don’t dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body established and a limitless heart.

And they do understand where those arisen bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

When you hear a sound with your ears ...
Hearing a sound with the ears ...

know a thought with the mind. If it’s pleasant they don’t hold on to it, and if it’s unpleasant they don’t dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body established and a limitless heart.
When they know a thought with their mind, if it’s pleasant they don’t hold on to it, and if it’s unpleasant they don’t dislike it. They live with mindfulness of the body established and a limitless heart.

And they do understand where those arisen bad, unskillful qualities cease without anything left over.

This is called a mendicant who is uneducated ...
This is called a mendicant who is uneducated and has not seen the eye. ...

sounds ... smells ... tastes ... touches ... thoughts known by the mind.
thoughts known by the mind.

When a mendicant lives like this, if Māra comes at them through the eye he doesn’t find a vulnerability or get hold of them.

If they agree with the ear ...
They’d look down on an ear ...

mind he doesn’t find a vulnerability or get hold of them.

Suppose there was a bungalow or a hall with a peaked roof. If they were to burn and scorch him with a grass torch from the east, west, north, or south, wouldn’t get a fire.
Suppose there was a bungalow or hall with a peaked roof, with a rope to the east, west, north, or south.

If even in the west ...
standing in the west ...

northern quarter ...

or south ...
If they are worthy of a religious donation ...

If the lower direction ...
above, below to the lower direction ...

standing in the upper direction ...

or from anywhere, the fire wouldn’t find a vulnerability, it wouldn’t get a foothold.
or from anywhere.

In the same way, when a mendicant lives like this, if Māra comes at them through the eye he doesn’t find a vulnerability or get hold of them.

If they agree with the ear ...
They’d look down on an ear ...

mind he doesn’t find a vulnerability or get hold of them.

When a mendicant lives like this, they master sights,

a mendicant overestimates them,
A mendicant mastered the sound of drums,

you won’t master the fragrance of smells.
when you’re mastered by smells, you won’t master that mendicant,

a mendicant delights in taste, and not master these things.
a mendicant mastered the taste of taste, you should not master that mendicant.

and touches don’t master them.
you’re not mastered by touches, mendicant,

and thoughts, they don’t master these things.
thoughts, they don’t master these things.

This is called a mendicant who has mastered sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and thoughts.

They mastered bad, unskillful qualities.
Doing bad, unskillful qualities.

That’s how someone is uneducated.”
That’s how you’re not learned.”

uneducated,
uncorrupted, uneducated,

Not being consumed by sensual desire, ill will, confusion, and fever,
Unable to be constantly burned by passion, burning with fever of passion, burning with fever for him, and being consumed by hatred, burning with fever for him, and burning with fever for him,

It’s not uneducated and unperturbed, blazing and twisted.
Not lustful, without feverish, one who practises his consumed water, and one who makes the faults of the kasiṇa,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“So your eyes are not too close,
“Neither eyes, feet,

guarded, protected, and restrained,
guarded, protected by senses, guarded,

Not lustful, without defilements,
Without lust, without lust,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

after caringing the householder’s phrases,
after sypping the lay people in order,

like Shady sandals on dry ground,
like Shady Orchid Tree of curls.

After putting it down,
having gone out from the charnel ground,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

A female layperson and hermaphrodites are said to be, “A householder, and a hermaphrodites.” ...
Gaintaining services for laypeople and renunciates, these are called “Theses-callings”.

or a Dīgha.
or frail or heart.

After putting down his bodies, he descended down. He lifted up a serpent, lifted up his courtesan, and lay down on his way.
After putting down his bodies, he descended from the armpits, put down his joined palms, and lifted them down.

after caringing the householder’s phrases,
after sypping the lay people in order,

As judgmental blows on the Shady Orchid Tree of jujube seeds, so too, a Buddha who is carrying a pole, and a keyhole,
Just as sunshade, so long as the leaveshady Orchid Tree has fallen leaves, so too, the Independent Buddhas like the sunshade of the leaf sunshade,

like Shady sandals on dry ground,
like Shady Orchid Tree of curls.

Having left the Kāsīsa, having cut off all the sarong countries that was roared into the sky, covered with white cloth, all the limbs, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness. Having cut off their hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.
Having escaped the Kāliyāna, he cut off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness. He chopped off the skin and said: “After taxed the nails, having shaved off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth from the lay life to homelessness.” He chopped off his hair and beard, dressed in ocher robes, and went forth into the lay life.

having left my body, one with aiming at the edge of the Kāsīs.
After putting on a bier roaming the floor by one and atisk’s flesh,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Householders, after wisely socializing
“Having spended the householders,

like Shady sandals on dry ground,
like Shady Orchid Tree of curls.

After putting it down,
having gone out from the charnel ground,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

The third sub-chapter on lying down is finished.
The third is finished.

4. Catutthavagga

The sweet, the person who guards the senses,
in regard to tastes, singing,

while dwelling undisturbed, with no-one else,
wandering without another, with no need for alms.

with a mind free from family to family.
in love with the family homeless,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

The taste of the solid nectar,
singing in tastes, tangibles,

Timbara, a reinspiring root, sweet, hot, mild, sweet, depointment, and very fierce, salt, oil, hot, and cold.
Timbaru, wood, resplendent, sweet flag, atis root, black hellebore, khus root, nutgrass, and fragrant roots, spikes, and fruits; and lifesty.

There are some ascetics and brahmins who have psychic power.
There are some ascetics and brahmins who are successful in sense pleasures,

and they were looking for the tongue, and they had an outcaste with taste.
They were looking for the tongue; and for the taste-sphere touching the tongue.

After pouring, they get mangoes, not being mastered by Ambaṭṭha, gather and so on, none of them.
They ate what they had not been mastered and cleansed without scrutinizing, and without getting permission.

Having received honey, the milk-rice and non-staple food, they went looking for a taste,
had been given to drink (all) the milk-rice and honey-balls, the honey-balls (only) after giving portion to the honey-hundred work.

After pouring water they do not receive. It was practisesing and looking after announcing.
After means having obtained (them) they do not seek out what was given, and so doing.

After pulling a cart, they get out of swallowing, seeking powder, and so on.
a monkey went back to looking for her, and when they were unable to obtain it, they went looking for her.

poisoned salt, then looking for her insects, and so on.
a poisonous salt, and then incapable of the salt in each.

after receiving milk-rice and left, they looked forwards, looked for rice in the same way.
after receiving milk, they went looking for her, and instruments because they were unable to look after her.

obtained (them) inconvenient monks, when they obtained the unallowable path, when they are seeking the rest.
get rid of involves, and don’t seek garments. They seek unconcerned clean,

Having obtained mangoes, they obtained only mangoes, and went to the whole mango tree.
Having obtained terrors, they get mangoes, went to a mango, and seeking mangoes.

She became one who obtained and had mastered sweet, and so on.
Once they had obtained tears, and so on, after seeking non-human beings

get cold and heat.
cold and heat.

They get what they need, and they don’t exist in that.
they’ll seek what they haven’t been given.

delighted in agreeable things, greedy, tied, infatuated, and attached to the Buddhas.
greedy for flavors, delightful, greedy, tied, infatuated, and is attached to the Buddhas,

That craving—who has given up craving, cut it off at the root, made it like a palm stump, obliterated it, so it’s unable to arise in the future.
That craving for tastes, is cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

That’s why they reflect properly on the food that they eat:
That’s why it reflects properly on the food that they eat:

“Not for sport, or for showing off, not for ornament,
“Not for sport, for showing off, not for ornament,

but only to maintain this body, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual life.
but only to maintain this body, to avoid harming, and to support spiritual life.

In this way, I shall put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and I will live blamelessly and at ease.”

Just as a strong wound would sink down amount of multitude on a wound, or a multitude of garments for the purpose of crossing the desert, as much as you like.
Just as a wound would for the purpose of crossing the mud, just as much as they want, without turning some water as they originate and a load carried on their eyes.

In the same way, a Buddha awakened for himself:
In the same way, a Buddha awakened for themselves:

“Not for sport, or for showing off, not for ornament,
“Not for sport, for showing off, not for ornament,

but only to maintain this body, to avoid harm, and to support spiritual life.
but only to maintain this body, to avoid harming, and to support spiritual life.

In this way, I shall put an end to old discomfort and not give rise to new discomfort, and I will live blamelessly and at ease.”

craving for tastes ...

among the tastes,
for tastes, tangibles,

greedy, tied up by conceit is called craving.
greed is what is meant.

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed ...

It’s been cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated so it’s unable to arise in the future.
That craving is cut off at the root, made like a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

That’s why he is an awakened one.
That’s why the Buddha awakened for themselves:

The sweet, the person who guards the senses,
in regard to tastes, singing,

while walking, standing, sitting,
wandering without understanding.

The Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves, but not others.
Paccekabuddhas as “the awakened” is one made by oneself, not another.

you’re unknown,
you’d be on the wise:

tamed, grounded in the essence,

with defilements ended and flaws purged:

that’s who I call a brahmin.

Taking your clothes, they robe up in the morning and, taking their bowl and robe, enter the village or town for alms.
Living in the morning, they robe up and in the morning, taking their bowl and robe, enter a village or town for alms without guarding body, speech, and mind, establishing mindfulness, and restraining the sense faculties.

One with the eyes were lowered, but one is unsure of it, and he wanders without protection.
A family is supported by the eye; he is endowed with good eyes; he is going for alms without a family. He lives on alms.

while dwelling undisturbed, with no-one else,
wandering without another, with no need for alms.

he is attached to families with two families:
he is attached to two families:

Or they put others down on a bed or stuck in one’s place. They fix others on annihilation, or put others down.
set aside one placed himself in a low place, one puts others down on top of annihilated person, or someone else whose mind is lifted like this.

How may they put others down on a bed or laid down others on annihilated and bounded?
How do they make themselves happy and pleased?

“You’re very helpful to me. I’m relying on you with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.
“I’m very helpful to me. Your robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

since I don’t see any other services or teachers.
whatever other I’m able to see, that you’re invited, and that you see,

Also I have the name and clan of my mother and father, which have vanished from me.
Since I’m the ancient name and clan, I have vanished from your parents,

that one who has been given the full ordination after.”
that one’s arisen in the family.”

One who makes himself stuck in this way, saying,
One makes themselves happy and pleased, and put others down on another side.

How do they fix others on high ground and low?
How do they make others karma set aside inside?

“Well, I have been very helpful to you for refuge to the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha. I take refuge in the Buddha, who refrains from killing living creatures, stealing, and sex. And I give you sexual misconduct.
“I’m very helpful to you, the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha. I have gone for refuge for you to the Buddha, the teaching, and the Saṅgha. And I give them a teaching, and I ask you the same teaching.

Come, all of you, honor, respect, esteem, and venerate me.”
Yet you honor, respect, esteem, and venerate me.”

One who makes others motion and put others down on top of others.
One who continues to place others like this place others like this, and is attached to others.

They don’t hold fast to their family, with a mind free of greed, hate, and delusion. They’re not attached to their family, straying their heart full of greed, hate, and delusion. They becomes attached to their own dwellings, tied to them. They think: ‘They are unguarded with robes, alms-food, lodgings, and requisites. They’re not hurtful, with a mind free of delicious, and bound for alms-food.
They don’t lose their minds tied to it, influence, or repulsion, insolent, fickle, scurrilous, or loose-tongued. They’re free from sickness, living in suffering, with a mind free of rice porridge, rigidity and boundless. They’re free from covetous about robes, alms-food, lodgings, and medicines and supplies for the sick.

Without first being involved in families, one who is dead and one whose mind is disturbed.
Without getting careless family, both with disrepute and deportment.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“As a guard the senses,
“As a person in the world beyond,

while dwelling undisturbed, with no-one else,
wandering without another, with no need for alms.

with a mind free from family to family.
in love with the family homeless,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Giving up these five hindrances,

corruption, and all of them
all corruptions, so that,

You’ve cut the inner skin,
You’ve cut the inner self-control,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Giving up these five hindrances, they give up the hindrances. They’ve cut off sensual desire, ill will, confusion, and unable to develop ill will.
After giving up the five hindrances, they give up the hindrances by abandoning the mind. They’ve given up the hindrance of sensual desire, ill will, confusion, and fear.

dullness and drowsiness ...

restlessness and remorse ...

Giving up doubt, they enter and remain in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.
doubt, having given up the hindrance of doubt, secluded from sensual pleasures, secluded from unskillful qualities, they enter and remain in the first absorption, which has the rapture and bliss born of seclusion, while placing the mind and keeping it connected.

Giving up these five hindrances,

Ignorance is a corruption of the mind. All of greed, hate, and delusion are corruptions of the mind.
malicious corruptions of the mind. ...

hostility ...

all unwholesome thoughts are corruptions of the mind.
are corruptions of the mind.

I have eliminated all defilements that are corrupted, eliminated, and obliterated all corruptions of the mind. I gave them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.
and, when all are eliminated, all corruptions of the mind. They give them up, get rid of them, eliminate them, and obliterate them.

corruption, and all of them
all corruptions, so that,

incinerated in the mass of fire,
they incinerated in the inner skin,

Two kinds of support:

Craving, giving up craving,
You’re reborn in a lower realm. ...

This is the ending of craving. ...

This view of what you have.
This is the ground for views.

two kinds of thirst:
Someone with two qualities:

Craving, affection, and thirst.
Craving, affection, infatuation, thirst, and craving for views ...

This is the ending of craving.

This is the ground for view.

aggression is a destroyer of faults. Anger is slaughtered in resentment, hate, delusion, anger, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, deceit, bad desires, and wrong thoughts.
The person who is warding off the resentment, resentment, oppressiveness, hostility, disdain, contempt, jealousy, stinginess, deviousness, deceit, bad desires, and wrong view.

Lust independent, they’ve cut off craving, untied the attachment to views, unattached, blind to the drawbacks, and understanding the escape. They, having cut off craving and becoming awakened, they’ve cut off craving, untied them off, and becoming awakened.
Living independent, they’ve cut off craving, untied the Independent Buddhas, having cut off the legs, cut off the culminated craving, unattached, seeing the drawbacks, and understanding the escape.

If he is not dependent on the ear ...
When I heard ...

When they have seen, heard, thought, or known something, they don’t haven’t left unguarded, untied, and undisturbed, their mind free of limits.
He has seen the Truth, understood, and penetrated it; he is unshakable, infatuated, unattached, uncorrupted, liberated, detached, his mind free of limits.

One who has cut off doubt, untied the flesh, the sinews, the milk, and the water in the air.
You’ve cut the tip of the flesh, the sinews, and the milk in a small lake.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Those five hindrances are abandoned,
“Through five hindrances,

corruption, and all of them
all corruptions, so that,

You’ve cut the inner skin,
You’ve cut the inner skin, the lady in the flesh,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

having destroyed the great happiness and suffering,
having destroyed his happiness and suffering,

and previously happiness,
give rise to happiness in the past,

looking on at it with gain, which is purified,
obtaining insight to purity,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

fourth absorption.
With the giving up of pleasure and pain, and the ending of former happiness and sadness, they enter and remain in the fourth absorption, without pleasure or pain, with pure equanimity and mindfulness.

Happy, well experienced in happiness and sad,
having destroyed joy and happiness, formerly experienced former happiness,

prohibiting him from looking (of purity),
obtaining what is purified,

Equanimity is the fourth jhāna of equanimity, equanimity, mentality, and equanimity. It is equanimity due to mentality.
Equanimity is the fourth jhāna in equanimity: equanimity of the mind that is equanimity based on the consciousness that is equanimity of unification of mind;

It’s the power of serenity, the mind becomes stuck in, and the power of immersion that’s undeveloped.
the mind becomes stabilized.

And in the fourth dyad there are positions that are pure, bright, unconfused, clear, and unconfused.
And in the fourth temperature that is purified, bright, flawless, free from defilements, pliable, workable, steady, and imperturbable,

They gained confidence in the fourth, and they got rid of the fourth absorption on an appropriate occasion:
After looking at an intervals with purification, he obtained a liquor, and after gaining faith in the fourth, he obtained multitude, saying,

One who looks after her husband’s prohibiting what is purified, while cleansed by stains.
One should gather round, cleansing up, and settlements,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“As a miserable happiness and suffering,
“About having destroyed the suffering that happiness

and previously happiness,
give rise to happiness in the past,

looking on at it with gain, which is purified,
obtaining insight to purity,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

with energy aroused, being one who lacks good,
with energy aroused, fulfiling in the ultimate way,

being lazy and lacking in mind,
Abiding in mind the stainless,

strong and weak in strength,
being strong, having strong strength, he has strength:

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

with energy aroused, one who livess at the deathless.
with energy aroused, ~ for the ultimate goal, the ultimate sanctuary.

It’s the ending of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’
That which is the stilling of all activities, the letting go of all attachments, the ending of craving, fading away, cessation, extinguishment.’

There is a gain for attaining the ultimate goal. They live with energy...
There is a gain for attaining the ultimate solace. They live with energy roused up for giving up unskillful qualities and embracing skillful qualities.

with energy aroused, being one who lacks good,
with energy aroused, fulfiling in the ultimate way,

When your mind isn’t lazy and strive ...
When their mind is worried, they generate enthusiasm, try, make an effort, exert the mind, and strive so that bad, unskillful qualities don’t arise. ...

so that skillful qualities arise ...

so that skillful qualities that have arisen remain, are not lost, but increase, mature, and are completed by development.

Even so, with mind free from burden put down,
Thus, being one whose mind is uncorrupted,

“Gladly, let my skin, sinews, and bones remain! Let the flesh and blood waste away in my body! I will not stop trying until I have achieved what is possible by human strength, energy, and vigor.”
“While I’ll sinew the skin, sinews, and tendons remain in my body; I will not stop trying until I have achieved what is possible by human strength, energy, and vigor.”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with an incomparable mind.

I won’t eat, I won’t drink,

I won’t leave my dwelling;

nor will I lie down on my side—

not until the dart of craving is drawn out.

if she instigates her mind once,
because of one’s mind,

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with a lazy mind.

“I will not break this sitting posture until my mind is freed from defilements by not grasping,”
“I will not break this sitting posture until my mind is freed from the defilements by not grasping!”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with a lazy mind.

“I will not wield the seat until my mind is freed from defilements by not grasping,”
“I won’t get up from my seat when I have risen from this seat until my mind is freed from defilements by not grasping!”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with a lazy mind.

“I won’t walk up and down the walking-path in this way.” ...
lay down on the walking-path,

I’ll leave the dwellings ...
the dwellings ...

his home came out through.
a half a month ...

“I shall depart from the longhouse” ...
thinking, “I’ll leave.” ...

“I’ll leave my disrob,” ...
thinking, “I’ll leave.” ...

I’ll leave my cave,
I’ll leave my nose ...

“I’ll emerge from the portions,” ...
the winnowing mass of water ...

I’ll leave my hut in only,
I’ll leave my hut out of the huts. ...

I’ll leave a bungalow ...
a bungalow, a roof-peak,

“I’ll leave my body!” ...
lay down on the embankment ...

I’ll leave my cemetery ...
I’ll leave without being released ...

my thieves ...
my thighs outcaste ...

the assembly hall ...

lay the disease ...
the cesspit ...

and that I will leave tree until my mind is freed from defilements by not grasping.”
‘I will not leave the root of a tree until my mind is freed from the defilements by not grasping.’”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with a lazy mind.

“When I’ll strive in the morning, I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, and I’ll realized the higher mind.”
“In the morning, I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones in the morning and find out which I will be able to realize the same teaching.”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with an incomparable mind.

“In the midst of it,
“In the middle of the day ...

In the evening ...
In the late afternoon,

before ...
forwards,

Afterwards ...
After the meal ...

... the first ...
“For the first rains residence ...” ...

medium ...
middle medium ...

western ...
In the last watch of the night ...

black wool ...

the glory ...
a Jeta’s Grove ...

... who have completed the rains residence ...
the rainy season residence ...

winter,
“After the lower winter, the winter season ...”

the neck of nose ...
soaked ...

the aggregates ...
the previous aggregates ...

Middle ...
the middle aggregates ...

I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, and I’ll realize the teaching and training.”
I’ll realize the teaching of the noble ones, and I’ll realize the teaching of contact with my mind.”

Because this is what happens when the mind is uncorrupted.
Because this is what happened with an incomparable mind.

He was firmly established in good conduct and devoted to the development of the bodies. He was firmly established in skillful qualities. Mindfulness and situational awareness, devoted to skillful qualities, generally towards the sabbath, living together with spiritual companions, by virtue of which they had visited calamity and grammar, and was well versed in good conduct.
He was firmly aroused and has strong foundations that are strong, staunchly vigorous, exceedingly vigorous, and those frequenting festivals that were firmly established in ethical conduct and devoted to skillful qualities, having attained the sabbath, defilement and tied the sabbath of their conduct.

strong, staunchly vigorous,
strong, having shaken off the sky,

Strength of the Buddhas awakened for themselves; they’re strong, staunchly vigorous, and they’re endowed with wisdom when it comes to qualities that have arisen. They come up when they’re endowed with wisdom.
Awakened by the strength of the Buddha, the Independent Buddhas, and the power of energy one endowed with wisdom when it comes to awakening; and one is endowed with wisdom; and one who has arisen in him by wisdom.

Victorious, disturbed by strength, with just like a strong rotten boiled rice.
Victory, strong, staunchly vine, and grain,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Excellent, one who has lost energy,
“He who has been energetic, at the end of suffering,

being lazy and lacking in mind,
Abiding in mind the stainless,

strong and weak in strength,
being strong, having strong strength, he has strength:

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

reflecting on retreat,
while delighting in meditation,

always living in line with good principles,
who lives in line with teachings—

who has rightly established the drawbacks of future lives,
being rightly established in the drawbacks of rebirth:

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Since they enjoy retreat ...
Abandoning retreat, they neglect retreat, and are committed to seclusion in themselves. They enjoy in retreat, delight in seclusion, be committed to internal serenity of heart, they enjoy that delight in retreat.

Enlightened One, while still awakened to the Buddha, he does not enter upon two kinds of meditation.
As they do so, they grieved by the two Awakened One, the Buddha, not with two factors.

... the first absorption ...
Or they’re detached from the first absorption ...

...
or, when there is no third absorption ...

if he generates the fourth jhāna, or is committed to the joy of this fourth absorption—
if he has not arisen, he is committed to the fourth absorption, but is committed to the joy of stream-enterers.

So they don’t absorption
that absorption, and doesn’t go away.

Or they enter and remain in the first absorption ...
Or they develop and cultivate the first absorption ...

third absorption ...

Or they cultivate, develop, and make much of it.
if they develop, and make much of the fourth absorption;

But they didn’t absorption
you don’t absorption

reflecting on retreat,
while delighting in meditation,

principles—these are called the four kinds of mindfulness meditation.
principles are said to be energetic ...

it is the noble eightfold path—
The noble eightfold path.

What are the teachings grouped by nine?
What are the teachings grouped by nature?

‘Accomplished in right mindfulness, lack of situational awareness, and devoted to the teaching. He fulfills the training precepts, guarding the sense doors, eats in moderation, and is dedicated to wakefulness.
Right mindfulness and situational awareness. They guard the sense doors and they have fulfilled the precepts, and they fulfill the precepts.

These are called the teachings.
These are called the principles.

principles, always stagnation, continually gentle, deluded, everlasting, and dust on the eyes,
always wandering in principle, constantly, continually present to the Teacher, a hundred times, flaws, and dust on my eyes;

When he has no longer affected by heats himself, the last one to the next, and the last one, in the first watch of the night, he stays on top of the sun. In the last part of the rainy season, the in the first watch, and the last month of the night.
When he has not done this, he dwells in the first watch of the night: at the middle of the rainy season, in the last watch of the night, and in the middle of the day. He wintermediately, in the last watch, he dwells in the last watch.

always living in line with good principles,
who lives in line with teachings—

being established on the drawbacks of continued existence, “This is the drawbacks of conditioned existence.”
subsistance is the drawback of conditions, and all conditions are impermanent.

All conditions are suffering. ...
All conditions are suffering ...

all things are not-self ...

“Anything that has a beginning has an end.”
“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

being exclusively unshakable in existences, yet he eats just one or other.
one drawbacks in existences and scorns.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having gone into retreat,
“Having delighted in meditation,

always living in line with good principles,
who lives in line with teachings—

who has rightly established the drawbacks of future lives,
being rightly established in the drawbacks of rebirth:

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

I’ve reached the end of craving,
you’ve reached the end of craving,

Nāḷigodhā, mindful,
of deermined and learned,

conditioned, chosen, and effort.
the (magical) thing that is conditioned, one who is demolished,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

He attains the end of craving,
the end of craving, being keen in every way.

craving for sights ...

The ending of craving, hate, and delusion.
The end of craving, greed, hate, and delusion. Avoiding with the ending of craving, repelling, and accepting any end of rebirth as irreversible. They consent, and as being unable to be released from it.

is the end of craving,
this is the end of craving.

Heedful and committed to the truthful, when it comes to skillful teachings, looks after them.
He is diligent in the Paccekabuddhas, who acts carefully and carefully. He practices carefully and well carefully.

I’ve reached the end of craving,
you’ve reached the end of craving,

Nāḷigodhā the Nāḷigodhā
Sumedhā, learned and mindful,

The wise one, learned and intelligent, wise, learned and intelligent,
The Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves; intelligent and fully awakened, a wise one, expert in knowledge and conduct,

They’re very learned, remembering and keeping what they’ve learned.
They’re very learned and remember what they’ve learned. They’re very learned, remembering and keeping what they’ve learned.

...

Similarly mindfulness is established and utmost mindfulness, and possesses mindfulness and alertness, and can remember and recall what was said and done long ago.
mindfulness and owing to the Independent Buddhas Mindfulness and alertness, and can remember and recall what was said and done long ago.

Nāḷigodhā, mindful,
Sutavā, great clever, sage,

the teaching that has been conditioned, is what is called knowledge of reckoned as a condition.
the knowledge of conditioned phenomena, is what is called the teaching of.

Understanding as understanding of principles, right view, and right thought.
wisdom ...

After appraisal, phenomena, the teaching, the Dhamma, and the liable to be reborn is also liable to decline.
conditioned phenomena that is conditioned and developed, and has been given up. It is liable to work. It is attached to, seeing the teaching, and developed.

“Everything that has a beginning has an end.”

So it’s constricted, a conditioned phenomena, and contracted to the elements of the sense fields, calmed. And it has been conditioned and expanded.
So it’s constructed to the Independent Buddhas, the aggregates, and the sense fields have been reckoned as such.

Or he stood on a limit stopping the entire spectrum of the assembly, standing on the last one side, and standing within the end of the life-processed without a limit on the a limit, which stands standing on the last side.
Then, standing on the last side, he stands firmly stood to the number of. When a limited period, a limited period, stood to one side, but standing within the limit of the number of.

This is the last continuation,
This is the last state of existence.

and this bag of bones is my last.
this bag of bones is my last

Craving for birth and death.
will long undergo

there are no future lives for them.

now they have awakened for themselves,
now the Independent Buddhas awakened for themselves;

the four noble paths are said to be the four noble paths.

endowed with the four noble paths, endowed with the noble path,
endowed with the four noble paths, endowed with the noble paths,

attained by the blessed with transgression, attained,
I attained by the one who has attained, by the one who has attained it myself.

effort is what is meant.
striving is called the effort to be energetic.

Pursuing energy, exerts the mind, effort, zeal, vigor, perseverance, energy, and vigor.
Because of this, they strive, worry of energy, vigor, perseverance, energy, and vigor.

With this Buddha awakened for himself, they’re reborn in a lower realm.
At the end of this Buddha awakened for themselves he was endowed with right effort.

That’s why he striving
That’s why he’s called the one Independent Buddhas.

(Only) efforts, teaching, and insistence, one appraisal, poison, one (only), and one who goes alone in banish.
(It is) conditioned, crushing the Dhamma, striving, and decaying.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“For the end of craving, you’re measureless;
“For the end of craving,

Nāḷigodhā, mindful,
Sutavā, great clever, sage,

conditioned, chosen, and effort.
the (magical) thing that is conditioned, one who is demolished,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

as if you’re not lion in the sounds,
and cutting down the cramped sounds—

or being born,
or, when born,

as water does not stick to the lotus.
as the waters of the lotuses seeing.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

And as he was wandering, disorded, fearful, and nervous. He raising his words free of an opening. He lived on without a difficulty, fear, terrified, scared, suspicious, and nervous.
And as he was in the captivating sounds, his trunk, fearless, scared, suspicious beast, embarrassed, fearful, scared, nervous, fearful, frightened, scared, he fledlessly.

as if you’re not lion in the sounds,
and cutting down the cramped sounds—

or being born,
Or they are born, or being reborn.

winds that are east, west, north, and south. There are winds that are dusty and dustless, cool and warm, weak and strong.
Winds from the east, west, north, or south. There are winds that are dusty and dustless, cool and warm, weak and strong.

About Jāliya
Riches is called a net

Just as one does not feel (today); the story does not split outside the middle or outside is inside the mouth;
Just as one does not spend the stone, nor does the net find no footing in the middle, or the two middle does not reach the end of the absorption,

Craving, rebirth, and view. ...
Craving and net of craving ...

That’s how craving is born. ...
This is the net of craving. ...

this is a ground for view.
this is the extent of view.

So their views have been given up, cut off craving, clinging to dust in misconception, and being attached to their own views, not holding them tight, buttoignoble and expelled. ...
Their view of the Independent Buddha has given up craving solace, cutting off craving, made a palm stump, obliterated, and unable to arise in the future.

He doesn’t sit withdrawn in regard to things that are seen, heard, or suspected. He doesn’t cling, he stays with a mind free of oppressed, detached from the mind.
He is committed to the seen enlightenment in things that are to say. He doesn’t feel discovered. He doesn’t stay in the middle of the day or today, he stays secluded, liberated, his mind is undisturbed, and he lives with his heart end.

or being born,
or, when born,

lotuses with flowers—
in the lotuses of water which was heedlessly gave a lotus flower to the lotus.

the water is what is meant.

Just as much as this buds don’t stick to the club of flowers, they’re not undone by a neck and plucking out,
Just as when the flowers of the sky is loaded on the bank of the river, it doesn’t coiled sheds or uncovered,

Craving, Etc. ...
Craving, and view.

This is the shelter of craving. ...
This is the shell.

This view is the idiot of view.
This is the idea of view.

Independent Perfectly Awakened One’s view has given up, let go of it.
The Independent Buddha has given up craving at the time, replying to views, has given up that view.

Craving for view they’ve given up the underlying tendency to craving. In the Paṭisambhidā they don’t believe in a Buddha.
Their view of craving is given up in the time of the Buddha Paccekabuddhas. It is not capable of propagating the ear ... nose ... tongue ... body ...

When you’re freed with the seen, you don’t get rid of them. They don’t keep clinging to them. They don’t get rid of the things that keep your heart free of greed.
He lives untied, liberated, fearless, plundered, and unclouded. He doesn’t get rid of these things. He doesn’t stay calmed, committed to the end of the five lower fetters.

lived alone and free of defects, having eaten grass and sticks,
like a lotus cast-flower which wandered alone in the water of the fire.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Sīha, though you heard
“Sīvaka, on hearing the sounds,

or being born,
or, when born,

as water does not stick to the lotus.
as the waters of the lotuses seeing.

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

like a lion the earth, like a hands and feet on the ground,
Like a whirlpool,

King Aṅgīrasa
Kings, councils, horses, conducts,

You should frequent remote lodgings
One should frequent secluded lodgings,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Mastered by the power of a king, just as the king of beasts are able to constantly prevail over all kinds of animals, then having mastered all creatures. He wields power as if he were born, he does. Asserts, he encounters fear and dread, and conscientiously.
Mastered by the kingdom, just as this beast of all the earth. Having mastered the distance of all the animals, he then conquers all the animal realm, when the prince masters, having mastered the three vanity of animals and masters, and the troopsites, he seizes them with wisdom. He having mastered them, he runshes all over and quiver. He having mastered all these persons, he encounterated the fear of wisdom.

the giver of the earth, like a king who has mastered the army of his beasts,
the Drawns (?) like a broken-down jungle, he then having mastered the kingdom.

But by frequenting lodgings in the wilderness and the forest, they frequent remote lodgings in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the madding crowd, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.
He frequents a secluded lodging—a lion, a king of beasts, frequents, and, hunters—they live in the wilderness, in the wilderness, in remote lodgings. They live in the wilderness and the forest that are quiet and still, far from the forest, remote from human settlements, and fit for retreat.

He walks alone, returns alone, sits down alone, and lays down in private alone. He proceeds alone, and concentrates on walking for alms.
He remains alone, returns alone, sits down in private alone; he walks alone, returns alone, sat in private alone, and concentrates on walking mindfully; he walks alone; he walks alone, returns alone, returns alone, sat in private on walking mindfully; he public.

One should frequent secluded lodgings, one with just one and one of them.
One should frequent secluded lodgings, one is hunger and thirst.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Currently, as the earth is on the earth,
“Currently, just as a donor is slowly,

King Aṅgīrasa
Kings, councils, horses, conducts,

You should frequent remote lodgings
One should frequent secluded lodgings,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

compassionate, compassion, and equanimity.
friendliness, compassion, gladness and equanimity,

while crying, and at the time of his moment,
crying at the right time, the position,

without tricking anything in the world,
With the utter ending of all in the world,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

They meditate spreading a heart full of love to one direction, and to the second, and to the third, and to the fourth. In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of love to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.
a heart full of love ...

and the third,
the third absorption ...

... the fourth absorption ...
the fourth absorption ...

In the same way above, below, across, everywhere, all around, they spread a heart full of love to the whole world—abundant, expansive, limitless, free of enmity and ill will.

compassion ...
He meditated spreading a heart full of compassion ...

rejoicing ...

equanimity.

compassionate, compassion, and freedom.
while preparing the equanimity of one position, on compassion for created freedom,

Since they are worthy of a kindness, those who don’t are unrealized ...
It’s because of developing loving-kindness towards the east ...

northern quarter ...
Those sentient beings who are northern quarter ...

those who are worthy of a religious donation ...

There are beings who like the eastern quarter ...
There are beings in the eastern direction ...

not in the western direction ...
middle-aged ...

Those who are supreme in the north- south ...
Those sentient beings who are upright in the north-West direction ...

those who are worthy of a religious donation ...
Those who are worthy of a religious donation ...

while those who are in the lower direction ...
“... the lower direction ...”

while those who are above ground
It is not the upper direction ...

Those beings in the ten directions are unrepulsive.
Those sentient beings are unrepulsive in ten directions.

Developed in compassion ...
compassion ...

Through developing immersion ...
When resentment is developed and cultivated

equanimity ...

Those beings in the ten directions are unrepulsive.
Those sentient beings are unrepulsive in ten directions.

Not doing any of these in the world, they reside and blameworthy, who don’t get rid of resentment in the world.
Not doing any of these in the world, they don’t get rid of resentment, not ignorant.

Undiscriminately, without transmigration, one who is ignorant,
All the world’s word is destroyed by (maying) cleansing up the sacred fires,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“One who is endless freed through the ending of suffering,
“A compassionate one, compassionaten by compassion,

while crying, and at the time of his moment,
crying at the right time, the position,

without tricking anything in the world,
With the utter ending of all in the world,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Having given up greed, hate, and delusion,
having given up greed, hate and delusion,

and caught up in reference,
and having consumed the fetters

As long as life is not short,
At the end of life like a lake,

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Having given up greed, hate, and delusion,
They give up greed, hate, and delusion,

Greed ...
Greed is a root of greed, hate, and delusion.

It is displeased, stubbornness, and unsuitable thoughts.
It is the destroyer of the mind, arrogant and unhappy mind.

Delusion is suffering, its root, and the practice that leads to its root.
Delusion is suffering, so is the root of suffering.

They give up greed, hate, and delusion, and then give them up.
They give up greed, hate, and delusion. They’ve given up greed, hate, and delusion. They’ve given up greed, hate, and delusion.

Having given up greed, hate, and delusion,
having given up greed, hate and delusion,

and constantly referred to as it was called with the fetters.
and having consumed the fetters

Ten fetters:

The fetters of sensuality, desire to be reborn, and ignorance.

Sandha, after giving up the ten fetters, and then, he took them off, gave them up, and gave them up, he departed.
But when this happens, they give up the fetters and eliminate the fetters, discomfort, and then took them away. They’d give them up, eliminate them, and obliterate them.

and caught up in reference,
and having consumed the fetters

Unless they’re unable to live withdrawn. They’ve given up life. They’re fearless, scared, suspicious, and nervous. They live negligently, free of peril.
‘He lives without interruption, with lifespan, dangers and threats because of troubles the life of purity. He is not exhausted; he is fearless, dread, and dreadful. He is unable to walk or bear his ends.

As long as life remains, unconditioned, one is (but) unbuilded,
‘Like deer’s life is one made of bubble, (but) clean,

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having given up greed, hate, and delusion,
“Having given up greed, hate and delusion,

and caught up in reference,
and having consumed the fetters

As long as life is not short,
At the end of life like a lake,

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

Associating with the sharing which they cultivate.
Associating with the sharing:

A wrong time is rare, so hard today.
A overcoming that many times are hard to find,

Wisdom in a human being.
Wisdom is what’s for their own welfare.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Both Kinds of Kinds means: here in order to prevent those who associate with both themselves and others, and do what is beneficial for the sake of their own benefit in this life. Because of that reason you cultivate the ultimate reason for your own benefits.
Both Kinds of people: they associate inappropriate for the sake of their own benefit, in others. Because of this reason, they frequent offensivens and cultivate that’s felt for the sake of their own benefit.

Associating with the sharing which they cultivate.
Associating with the sharing:

Two days are hard to find, and there are two friends:
The two kinds of friends are hard to find.

His house is deer and without coming.
You have a house covered and there is no lamp. ...

This house is deer ...
This house is decayed. ...

this homeless life is left behind.
this homeless life is leftover.

These two extremes are hard today, socializing with friends: these two friends are hard today, and an untouchable embarrass.
These are the two reasons that which causes. They’re hard today, that’s hard to get a bad reputation: “It’s hard for the ease, my friends.”

A wrong time is rare, so hard today.
A overcoming that many times are hard to find,

People are attached to their own welfare.
The people of sense desires are devoted to themselves,

As for the sake of their own benefits: for the sake of himself, they keep on doing it. On his own benefit, they frequent resort.
So they frequently ask for the sake of their own benefit: ‘In what is the reason for his own use, they frequently and improperly.’

aspiration.
by wisdom is their own welfare.

human beings who engaged in things and filthy conduct.
Someone whose deeds of body, speech, and mind are filthy, beautiful, and impure.

stealing ...
If they steal ...

They don’t commit sexual misconduct. ...
They commit sexual misconduct ...

I’m filthy ...
I’ll because of lying ...

divisive speech ...

harsh speech ...

talking nonsense ...
stinking nonsense ...

covetousness ...
and you’re full of covetousness ...

covetousness and ill will. People have wrong view. And they hidden in an unintelligent, filthy, stinking, pure in filth.
A person who has ill will and wrong view is impure; people have wrong view, filthy, stinking, filthy, and pure. That is why they overpower robes, filthy, and colleagues.

Wisdom in a human being.
Wisdom is what’s for their own welfare.

One should eat just one, making a heap of string,
One should wander alone, with a tiger trunk,

One Independent Sambuddha named Soṇa,
one Independent Buddhas ...

‘In eight ways I conduct.’ ...
‘The eighth meditation subjects’ ...

If it is damaged with milk-rice tinken shelter, any unboiled rice gruel ...
While he is expelled: one who has drunk from cheeks, one who is unbounded and he hasn’t had been removed. ...

One should eat just one, making a heap of string.
One should wander alone, with a tip of fierce fire.

Hence it is said:
And the Independent Buddhas spoke:

“Having enjoyed the kind and the body,
“Anyone who cultivates the meaning and shakes off -

A wrong time is rare, so hard today.
A overcoming that many times are hard to find,

Wisdom in a human being.
Wisdom is what’s for their own welfare.

One should eat just one meat.”
one should live alone and one who has ended the shelter.”

The fourth sub-chapter on lying down is finished.
The fourth part of the dining hall

Descriptions on the Renunciation of the Ascetic Life
Lesser than twenty-four grounds for less than twenty years old

Conquered by the name of the Three Worthiness.
Ajita, Tissa and Ajita,

Then Puṇṇa Mettagū,

Dhotaka, and Upasīva,

and Nandaka,
And Nandaka’s monastery is calling

the two: Todeyya and Kappa, and Todeyya,
the two: Todeyya, and Kappa, Todeyya,

Jatukaṇṇī and the astute
the wise and the learned,

Bhadrāvudha and Udaya,

Pāṭaliputta,
Pokkharasāti,

of Mogharāja,
Mogharāja, the intelligent one,

and Piṅgiya,
Piṅgiya and Kimbila.

in excess of sixteen respects:
When the sixteen mental curses,

and fulfilled the brahmins.
Yet the instructions of the brahmins.

The Beyonds of the Ways,
for theaking of the perfections,

those who love themselves
His seven rebirths are born,

eaten by spots,
The Lows of the best

but just as you’ve taught.
but just as you’d nevertheless.

Two kinds of current:
Discussions of two kinds:

full of tears and powder.
full of salicity,

The canonical text of the Short Division is finished.

