Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
Pay homage to the World- HonoredOne , Arahant, and Universally
Enlightened One.
Small Parts of the
　Great Interpretation of Sutras
　1. Eight Groups of Qualities (Eight Groups of Qualities)

1. Explanation of Desires

 1. When he desires desires, if it is for him That success

　is indeed his intentionaljoy : after the person who inevitably
diesgets what he wants.

"When he desires desire": "desire", there are two kinds of desire
from the hymn: desire for things and desire for pollution. What are the
desires of things? Desirable colors, agreeable sounds, agreeable smells,
agreeable smells, agreeabletouches , bedding, clothing, maids and
servants, goats and sheep, chickens and pigs, elephants, horses, mules,
horses, fields, houses, gold, gold coins, villages and towns A city, a
country, a country, a storehouse, a warehouse, anything that can be
tainted by greed is the desire for things.

In addition, there are past desires, future desires, present
desires, internal desires, external desires, internal and external
desires, inferior desires, intermediate desires, sublime desires, misery
desires, human desires Desires, Desires of God, Desires That Have Been
Presented Desires Created Desires Uncreated Desires Desire for
cherishing, desire for all things in the realm of desire, desire for all
things in the realm of form, and desire for all things in the formless
realm. Righteousness; the desire to be intoxicated with righteousness,
these are called the desires of things.

What are the desires for pollution? The lust of the will, the lust
of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the
lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust,
the craving of the lust, Lust love, lust, lust, lust, lust, lust, lust,
lust, lust, lust.

"Seeing those roots of desire, desire you to be produced by thought
(intention),

　I will not think of you, so desire will not exist." [Jat.8.39 verse]

These are called defiled desires. "When he desires": "When he
desires, when he wants, when he takes advantage, when he desires, when
he desires, when he desires." For when he desires desire.

"If it is successful for him": "'If it is for him', for that
Kshatriya, or Brahman, or Vaisha, or Sudra, or layman, or monk, or god,
or man Say. "That", those who are called the desires of things: the
desired look, the desired sound, the desired smell, the desired taste,
the desired touch. "Success", he achieves, succeeds, gets, receives, To
get, to have." For if that succeeded for him.

"It is true that he intends to rejoice": "'Indeed', this is the word
of decisive (always), the word of doubt, the word of self-confidence,
the word of no duplication, the word of doubt, the word of command, the
word of infallibility[, The words of non-failure], the words of
certainty, are "sure". "Joy", all the pleasures related to the five
desires, joy, joy, joy, laughter, laughter, happiness, contentment,
enthusiasm, and heart's delight are all over the place "Mind", all mind,
mind, mind, heart (visceral), white (pervasive), mind, mind base, mind
root, consciousness, consciousness aggregate, corresponding to that
consciousness world, this is called mind. This intention is carried out
by this joy, co-produced, mixed with each other, corresponding, born
together, destroyed by the same base, and the same object. "He intends
to be happy," he intends to be happy; there is joy, laughter, and joy. ,
joyful, enthusiastic, joyful, joyful." For sure he intended joy.

"The person who is unavoidably mortal gets what he wants": "After
getting it, after getting it, after receiving it, after getting it,
after having it. After the person who "unavoidably dies" is sentient
beings, human beings, students, Brahmins, people (men), The individual
(Putkara), the life, the one born, the sentient being, the one born of
Indra, the one born of Manu. "The one who wants", whoever wants, whoever
receives, whoever desires, whoever desires, whoever asks for look, or
sound, or smell, or taste, or touch.” For the mortal who gets what he
wants.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"When he desires desire, if it is successful for him, then

　indeed he intends to rejoice: the mortal one gets what he desires."

2. If one desires : for what has arisenThe sentient beings who desire,

　those desires wither, he is annoyed as if shot through by an arrow.

"If to be that one who desires": "'If to be that one', to be that
Kshatriya, or Brahman, or Vaisha, or Sudra, or lay family, or monk, or
god, or human." One who desires, receives, desires, desires, and
supplicates in desire, and who is carried, carried, carried, carried by
desire and craving, as in an elephant cart (riding), a horse-drawn cart,
an ox cart, a goat Wagons, rams, camels, donkeys and horses are carried,
carried, carried, carried. In the same way, he is carried, carried,
carried, carried by lust and craving." For if he should be the one who
desires.

"To the beings who have aroused desire": ""will" is the desire of
desire, the greed of desire, the pleasure of desire, the craving of
desire, the love of desire, the grasping of desire, the passion of
desire, The infatuation of desire, the outburst of desire, the yoke of
desire, the attachment to desire, the cover of desire of desire, the
desire of desire is born, born, born, born, and manifested. ', to
sentient beings, human beings, student Brahmins, human beings (men),
individuals (Putkara), life, those who are born, sentient beings, those
who are born of Indra, those born of Manu." For the sentient beings who
have arose desire .

"Those desires decay": "Or those desires decline, or he declines
from all desires. How are those desires decline? When he keeps those
riches, the kings take them, or the thieves take them, or the fire
burns, or the water flows away , or taken by unlovable heirs, or hoarded
and not found, or destroyed by wrong careers, or caused by prodigal sons
in the family, all those wealth that are scattered, destroyed, and
destroyed are [these] eight states of impermanence , so are those
desires that decay, decay, lose, decline, disappear, break. How is he
decaying from desires? When he retains those riches, he dies, dies, and
is destroyed, so is he decaying from those desires, decayed, lost,
declined, vanished, broken.

"The thieves kings took, and the fire burned, destroyed,

　and at last left, [leaving] bodies, possessions.

　The wise, knowing this, should use and give, Given

　and used as it is capable, reborn in the celestial realms without
fault. [ SN.1.41 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=1.41>]'”
for those who wish to decline.

"As if he were pierced by an arrow, and he was vexed": "As an arrow
of iron, or an arrow of bone, or an arrow of teeth, or an arrow of horn,
or an arrow of wood, He is annoyed, angered, annoyed, persecuted, and
becomes a sick man, a sorrowful one. In the same way, the changeproduces
sorrow, lamentation, suffering, sorrow, despair, and he is shot through
by the arrow of desire or the arrow of sorrow . , he was annoyed, angry,
annoyed, persecuted, a sick man and a mourner.” Annoyed for him as if
shot through by an arrow.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"If the one who desires is: to the beings who have aroused desires,
and those

　desires decline, he will be annoyed as if shot through by an arrow.

" to the head of the snake,

　He consciously transcends, the love in this world.

"Anyone who shuns desire": "'Any', whatever is like, such as effort,
such as arrangement, such as kind, any place that has been reached, any
Kshatriya who has the Dharma, or Brahman, or Vaisha, or chief Dhara, or
a layman, or a monk, or a god, or a person. "Avoiding desires",
"desire", there are two kinds of desires from the ode: desire for things
and desire for pollution... (Abbreviated in the middle). It is called
desire for things... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called desire
for pollution. "To avoid desire", to avoid desire in two ways: to
suppress or to cut off. How to avoid desire from suppression ? When you
see "Taste righteousness with less pleasure, desires are like bones",
avoid desires from all over the world; when you see "Extravagance of
righteousness, desires are like pieces of meat", avoid desires from all
over the world; When burning righteousness, desire is like a straw
torch, avoid all desires from the suppression; when you see
"righteousness with a big scorch, desires are like a charcoal fire pit",
avoid desires from all over the place; When in a dream, avoid desires by
subduing all desires; when you see “with temporary righteousness,
desires are like borrowed things”, avoid desires by suppressing all
states; When you see "the righteousness of the guillotine, the desire is
like a slaughterhouse", you should avoid the desire; when you see "the
righteousness is pierced, the desire is like a sword and halberd." When
you see "with fearful righteousness, desire is like the head of a
snake", you should suppress and avoid desire; when you see "with great
passion, desire is like fire gathered", you should suppress and avoid
desire.

When practising Buddha's mindfulness, Suppressing the desire to
avoid all; when practising the recitation of the Dharma... (middle
abbreviated) when practising the recitation of the Sangha... when
practising the recitation of the precepts... when practising the
recitation of alms... when practising the recitation of the heavens...
...when practising mindfulness of in-breathing ...when practising
mindfulness of deathmindfulness of body...when practising mindfulness of
stillnessand spontaneity to avoid cravings.

When practising the first jhāna, refraining from subduing and
avoiding desire; when practising the second jhāna... (abbreviated in the
middle) when practising the third jhāna... when practising the fourth
jhāna... when practising the boundless emptiness and so on... When
practising consciousness waits until the limitless... When practising
nothingness waits... When practising neither thoughts nor non-ideas
waits, avoid craving from subduing the kasina. This is the avoidance of
desire from the subduing.

What is the avoidance of desire from cessation? When practising the
Sudavana path ,the desire to fall into the realm of suffering will be
avoided from the cessation of all desires; when practising the first
path, gross desires will be avoided from the cessation of annihilation;
when one is practising the non-returning path, the subtle desires will
be avoided from the cessation of annihilation; when When practising the
Arahant path, completely, in every way, completely, without remainder,
and entirely from cessation of desire. This is the avoidance of desire
from cessation. "For those who shun desire everywhere.

"Like a foot to a snake's head": "A snake (Sappo) is called a snake
(ahi), what is the meaning of a snake? "Crawling and walking" is a
snake; "Walking on the chest" is the chest walker (snake); "walking with
the head down" is the prowler (snake); "crawling with the head (Cambodia
version)" is the creeper (snake) (Sri Lankan version); "Sleeping in the
cave" is the A cave dweller; "sleeping in a cave" is a cave dweller; "it
has its teeth as its weapon" is one who has teeth as its weapon; "it is
fearful of poison" is a highly poisonous one; "its tongue has a double
layer" as Those with two tongues (snakes); "taste with two tongues" are
those who know flavors with two tongues. If you want to live and don't
want to die; a man who wants to be happy and hate suffering will use his
feet to avoid, avoid, avoid all over, and avoid the head of the snake
downward. In the same way, those who desire pleasure and aversion to
pain avoid, avoid, avoid, and avoid desires downward" is like putting
feet on the head of a snake.

"He consciously transcends, the love of this world": "He", who is
universally shunned by desire. Loving is called craving, it is craving,
craving (perfect craving), submissive craving, accommodating, rejoicing,
craving, craving, wanting, infatuation, clinging, craving, great
craving, defilement, Sludge, disturbance, deceit, [source of samsara],
[suffering] fertility, tailoring (craving), net, river, tie, rope,
attachment, accumulation, companion, desire, channel of existence,
desire forest (forest), love forest (forest), intimacy [santhavo?],
love, expectation, relationship, desire, desire, state of desire, desire
for color, desire for sound, desire for smell, desire for taste, desire
for Desire to touch, Desire to get, Desire of man (Desire of wealth -
dhanāsā/ Ni.2 <https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni2.htm>, 8 verse), Desire
of Son, Desire to live, Desire, desire, supplication, covetousness,
state of covetousness, covetousness, covetousness Appearance, possessing
a state of covetousness, inquiring, wishing for good,
unlawfulcovetousness , unrighteouscovetousness , lust, desire, hope,
envy, full hope, craving for lust, craving for something, craving for
nothingness, craving for form, craving for formless, craving for
cessation, craving for form, craving for sound, craving for smell,
craving for taste, craving for touch, craving for Dhamma, turbulence,
yoke (binding), binding, clinging, obstructing, covering, covering,
binding, following defilements, latent tendencyof defilements ,
entanglement, gluttony, stinginess, the root of suffering, the cause of
suffering, the occurrence of suffering, the devil's net, the devil's
Fishing Hook [, Devil's Food], Devil's Realm [, Devil's Dwelling,
Devil's Binding], River of Craving, Net of Craving, Rope of Craving, Sea
of ​​Craving, Greed, Unwholesome Root.

"Love": What is the meaning of love? Love is "spread"; love is
"large"; love is "widespread"; love is "it forces"; love is "it takes";
love is "deceptive"; "Poisonous root" is love; "poisonous fruit" is
love; "poison is used" is love; touch...home...the people...the
abode...the gain...the fame...the praise...the happiness...the
clothes...the food...the bed and the seat...the patient's needs, the
medical necessities...the desire realm...the form realm... Formless
Realm... Desire to have... Form to have... Formless to
have...thinking...no thinking...non-thinking, non-thinking...one
aggregate...four aggregates...five aggregates...the past...the
future...the present...the seen, heard, felt, Enlarged attachment in the
dharmas that can be known. "For love.

"In the world": the world of suffering, the world of human beings,
the world of gods, the world of khandha, the world of worlds, the world
of living things. The "ground of mindfulness" is mindful in four ways:
when one is practising mindfulness on the body, one is mindful, one is
feeling... (middle) is one's mind... when one is practicing in the mind
In the Dharma, it is contemplative when contemplating the Dharma.

The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in avoiding
non-thought, mindful in the state where the dharma that should be done
with mindfulness is done, mindful in the state where the dharma
obstructed by mindfulness is destroyed, The state of not forgetting the
Dharma of mindful factor (phase) is mindful.

The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in the state of being
mindful, mindful in the state of being mindful, mindful in the state of
being proficient in mindfulness, mindful in the state where mindfulness
does not drop. of.

The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in a state of
mindfulness, mindful in a state of stillness, mindful in a state of
tranquility, mindful in a state of tranquillity; Mindfulness of Buddha,
mindfulness of Dharma, mindfulness of Sangha, mindfulness of precepts,
mindfulness of charity, mindfulness of heaven Mindful; mindful of
in-breathing, mindful of death, mindful of body-to-body mindfulness,
mindful of stillness, mindfulness; mindfulness, mindfulness,
remembrance, mindfulness The state of mindfulness, the state of
mindfulness, the state of non-floating, the stateof not forgetting, the
root of mindfulness, the power of mindfulness, mindfulness, the
enlightenment factor of mindfulness, and the path without fork in the
roadare called mindfulness. To have, to have, to reach, to reach, to
have, to have, to have this thought, he is called thoughtful.

"He consciously transcends, the love in this world": "The one who
loves in the world, or the one who should love in the world, he
consciously crosses, transcends, passes, crosses, overcomes." For him
consciously Transcendence, love in this world.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Whoever shuns desire is like putting his foot on the head of a
serpent, and

　he transcends mindfully, the love of this world."

4. Field, earth, or gold, cattle, horses, slaves , servants,

　women, relatives of all kinds of desires, mortals follow the
greedy ones.

"Field, land or gold": ""Field" refers to japonica rice field, paddy
field, mung bean field, broad bean field, barley field, wheat field,
flax field. "Field" refers to home, warehouse, front yard, backyard,
Garden land, dwelling place. 'Gold', gold is called money. 'For fields,
fields or gold.

"Cow, Horse, Slave, Servant": "The "cow" is called the cattle
(Cambodia version). The "horse" is called the domestic animal, etc.
"Slave", there are four kinds of slaves: the slave who was born in the
house, Slaves bought with money, arrived (became) into slavery on their
own, or arrived in slavery involuntarily.

"Some were [born] from female slaves, and also bought with money and
they became slaves, and

　some came into slavery themselves, also as slaves. Fear is
excluded (abandoned) and they become slaves."

"[Servants]," there are three kinds of [servants]: servants,
servants, and dependents (dinners and counselors)." For cattle, horses,
slaves, servants .

"Women, relatives of various desires": "'Women' are called women
(wives) they have. 'Kinds', there are four kinds of relatives: kin
relatives are relatives, surname relatives are relatives, [tongxi] canon
relatives are also relatives , [Tong Xi] technical relatives are also
relatives. "Various desires" are many desires: these various desires are
the desired sex... (the middle abbreviated) the desired touch." Various
desires for women and relatives.

"Everyone is greedy": "Everything is like what, such as effort, such
as arrangement, such as kind, every place that has been reached, every
Kshatriya who has the Dharma, or Brahman, or Vaisha, or Sudha Ra, either
at home, or out of home, or god, or human. "People" are sentient beings,
human beings, students, Brahmins, people, individuals, living beings,
those who are born, sentient beings, those who are born in Indra, those
who are born of Manu "According to greed", with the desire for
pollution, he craved, craved, coveted, and was bound by the desire for
things." For ordinary people who follow greed. Because of that, the Blessed

One said:

"Fields, ground, or gold, cattle, horses, slaves, servants, women,
relatives, all kinds of
　desires

　, all people follow the greed.

" Follow him like water to a broken ship.
"The powerless
conquers him": "The powerless, the weak, the less powerful, the less
powerful, the inferior, the inferior, the inferior, the inferior, the
inferior in intention, the insignificant pollution, the pollution
conquers , conquer, defeat, overwhelm, end, crush that man." This is how
the powerless conquers him. Or, "The powerless, the weak, the less
powerful, the less powerful, the inferior, the inferior, the inferior,
the inferior, the inferior of the intention, the insignificant: whoever
has no faith, vitality, mind, concentration The power of wisdom, power
of shame, power of shame, those who contaminate, conquer, conquer,
defeat, overwhelm, end, crush that person.” This is also the powerless
one who conquers him.



"Dangers crushed him": There are two kinds of dangers, obvious
dangers and hidden dangers. What are the obvious dangers? Lions, tigers,
leopards, bears, scoundrels, wolves, bison, elephants, snakes,
scorpions, centipedes, or thieves, rogues who do evil or prepare to do
evil, eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, head Disease, external ear disease,
mouth disease, dental disease, cough, asthma, external nose disease,
fever, old age, abdominal disease, coma, diarrhea, abdominal pain,
cholera, leprosy, tumor, ringworm, lung disease, epilepsy, ringworm,
mange , rheumatism, scratching (a type of leprosy), chapped skin,
hemobiliary disease, diabetes, hemorrhoids, rash (boils and blisters),
hemorrhoid fistula (ulcer), diseases caused by gallbladder, diseases
caused by phlegm, diseases caused by wind, etc. , [Three] diseases
caused by gathering, diseases caused by seasonal changes, diseases
caused by wrong posture, diseases that come suddenly, diseases caused by
karma, cold, heat, hunger, thirst, feces, urine, and Contact with
horseflies, mosquitoes, wind and sun snakes, etc., these are called
obvious dangers.

What are the hidden dangers? Vicious deeds in body, evil deeds in
speech, evil deeds in mind, lustful intentions, malice, sleepiness,
regret and regret, doubts, greed, hatred, ignorance, anger, resentment,
concealment of evil, domineering, jealousy , stingy, deceitful, cunning,
stubborn, passionate, slow, extremely slow, arrogant, loose, all
defilements, all evil deeds, all troubles, all burns, all heat and
troubles, all unwholesome pretensions, these are called hidden things.
secret danger.

"Dangerous", what does it mean to be in danger? "To conquer all" is
peril; "to lead to retreat" is peril; "to dwell there" is peril. How is
"conquest" a danger? Those perils conquered, conquered, defeated,
overwhelmed, ended, crushed that person, and thus "conquered all" as
peril. How is "led loss" a crisis? Those obstacles and failures that
lead to good Dharma, what kind of good Dharma? The right way, the
obedient way, the non-reversed way, the non-contradictory way (the
non-contradictory way), the way of the meaning, the way of the Dharma,
the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the gates on the roots,
the one who knows the right amount of food and drink , specializing in
sobriety, mindfulness and clear understanding, the diligent practice of
the four mindfulness, the diligent practice of the four righteous
diligence, the diligent practice of the four spiritual feet, the
diligent practice of the five faculties, the diligent practice of the
five powers, the diligent practice of the seven factors of
enlightenment, the eight faculties The diligent practice of the holy
path leads to the obstacles and retreat of these good dharmas, and this
is the danger of "leading to retreat".

What does it mean to "dwell there" as danger? There, these evil and
unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal dependence, such as
burrowing animals lying in caves; aquatic animals lying in water; forest
animals lying in forests; arboreal animals lying in trees. Likewise,
there, these evil and unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal
dependence. It is perilous to "dwell there".

This was said by the Blessed One: [ SN.35.151
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.151>]

"Monks! Bhikkhus who have apprentices and masters live in misery and
are not happy. Bhikkhus! And how do monks who have apprentices and
masters live in misery and are not happy? Bhikkhus. Here, after seeing
the form with the eyes, a bhikkhu arises the remembrances and intentions
of those evil and unwholesome things that follow the knot. "They dwell
in him; the evil and unwholesome things dwell and enter (occupy)." Hence
he is called " There are disciples'. 'They conquered him; evil and
unwholesome dharmas conquered him.' Therefore, he is called 'there is a
master'.

Furthermore, bhikkhus! After the bhikkhus hear sounds with their
ears...and smell smells with their noses...with their tongues After
tasting the taste...touching the body...after knowing the dharma with
consciousness, the remembrance and intention of those evil and
unwholesome dharmas that follow the knot arise. "They dwell in him;
"Therefore, he was called 'Having Disciples.' 'They conquered him; evil
and unwholesome dharmas conquered him.' Therefore, he was called 'Having
Master.' Suffering and not happiness." This is also "dwelling there" as
danger.

This was said by the Blessed One: [ It.88
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=88>]

"Bhikkhus! There are these three kinds of internal impurities,
internal non-friends, internal enemies, internal killers, internal
enemies, which three? Bhikkhus! Greed is internal impurities, internal
non-friends, Internal enemies, internal killers, internal enemies;
anger... (slightly omitted) Bhikkhus! Ignorance is internal filth,
internal non-friends, internal enemies, internal killers, internal foes.
Bhikkhus! These are the three types of internal filth, internal filth
Non-friends, internal enemies, internal killers, internal enemies.["]

"Greed is the cause of unprofitable, greed is the one that shakes
the heart,

　from which terror arises, and people do not comprehend it.

　The greedy person does not know the benefit, the greedy person
does not see the Dharma,

　then he is a blind dark person: anyone who is greedy and can conquer.

　Hatred is the cause of no benefit, hatred is the one that shakes
the heart,

　from which terror arises, and people do not realize it.

　The angry person does not know the benefits, the angry person does
not see the Dharma,

　then he is a blind dark person: a person who can conquer all hatred.

　Delusion is the cause of no benefit, delusion is the one that
shakes the heart,

　from which terror arises, and people do not realize it.

　The foolish man does not know the benefits,

　the foolish man cannot see the Dharma, then he is the blind
darkness: the man who the mortal fools can conquer. ”

This also means “dwelling there” as danger.

This is said by the World Honored One: [ SN.3.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=3.2>]

"My lord! When the three dharmas arise in a man, unfavorableness,
suffering, and unhappiness arise, which three arise? Great lord! When
the dharma of greed arises in a man, arise Unfavorable, suffering,
unhappy abiding; great king! When the dharma of hatred arises in a man
himself... (middle), great king! When the dharma of ignorance arises in
a man himself, arise unfavorable, painful, unhappy abiding, great king!
When a man himself arises When these three dharmas arise within,
unfavorable, unsatisfactory, unpleasant abiding arises."

"A man of greed, hatred, ignorance, disgust,

　hurts himself as much fruit [hurts] the heart of a tree."

This is also "dwelling there . "In danger.

This is said by the Blessed One: [ SN.10.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=10.3>]

"From here comes greed and hatred, from here comes unhappiness, joy,
and the hair on the body stands

　up, from here comes the search for the mind, like a little boy
putting a crow out."

This also means "dwelling there" as a danger. "The calamities
crushed him": "Those calamities conquered, conquered, defeated,
overwhelmed, ended, crushed that man." Crushed him for calamities.

"Afterwards, suffering follows him": "Afterwards, suffering follows
and accompanies that person from distress, and becomes a follower; birth
suffers, follows, and accompanies, and becomes a follower; old suffers
follow, accompanies, and becomes a follower; Follow, follow, become a
follower; death suffer, follow, follow, become a follower; sorrow,
sorrow, sorrow, despair, follow, follow, become a follower; hell...
suffering in the animal realm... suffering in the hungry ghost realm ,
accompany, become a follower; the suffering of human beings... stems
from the suffering of entering the mother's womb... from the suffering
of living in the mother's womb... from the suffering of leaving the
mother's womb... the suffering of the bondage of birth... the suffering
of being born will be The suffering of being placed by others...the
suffering of one's own persecution [asceticism]...the suffering of being
persecuted by others to follow, to follow, to become a follower; to
follow, to follow, to become a follower; disease, nose disease, tongue
disease, body disease, head disease, external ear disease, mouth
disease, dental disease, cough, asthma, external nose disease, fever,
old age, abdominal disease, coma, diarrhea, abdominal pain, cholera,
leprosy, tumor , ringworm, lung disease, epilepsy, ringworm, scabies,
rheumatism, scratches (a type of leprosy), chapped skin, hemobiliary
disease, diabetes, hemorrhoids, rashes (boils and blisters), hemorrhoid
fistulas (ulcers), gallbladder diseases, etc. , diseases caused by
phlegm, diseases caused by wind, diseases caused by the combination of
[three], diseases caused by seasonal changes, diseases caused by
incorrect posture, diseases caused by sudden attacks, diseases caused by
karma, cold, Heat, hunger, thirst, feces, urine, the pain of contact
with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun and snakes... the pain of losing
a mother... the pain of losing a father... the pain of losing a
brother... the pain of losing a sister... the pain of losing a child
Suffering...the suffering of losing a daughter...the suffering of losing
relatives...the suffering of property loss...the suffering of disease
loss...the suffering of loss of virtue...seeing the suffering of loss to
follow, accompany, and become a follower." follow him.

"As to a broken boat": "As a broken boat is in the water, and from
there the water follows, and follows, and becomes a follower; from the
front, the water follows, and follows, and becomes a follower; from
behind...from below... Follow and follow from the side of the water, and
become a follower. Similarly, from a crisis, follow and follow that
person, become a follower; follow and follow, follow, and become a
follower... (Omitted in the middle) See loss (bad See) to follow, to
follow, to become followers." For the ship that has been broken.

Because of that, the Blessed One said: "
The

powerless conquers him, the perils crush him, and then

　suffering follows him, like water to a broken ship.
　" Those
who are able to cross the storm later, such as those who have reached
the other shore after plucking out of the boat [middle water].

"Therefore is always the one who is mindful": "'Therefore',
'Therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that cause, when
seeing this fault in desires.' For this reason. Sentient beings, human
beings, student Brahmins, people, individuals, beings, beings, beings,
beings, beings of Indra, beings born of Manu. "Always", always; all; all
times; always; everlasting time; perpetually; continuously;
uninterrupted; successively; water waves arise without interval;
continual accompaniment to make it reach; before noon, noon, early
night, mid-night, late night; in black moon, bright moon, rainy season
Peaceful residence, winter, summer; in youth, middle age, old age.
"Mindful" is mindful in four ways: mindful when practising mindfulness
of the body; The upper...in the mind...is mindful when practising
mindfulness of the dharmas upon the dharmas. The next one is mindful in
four ways:... (abbreviated in the middle) he is called mindful." For
this reason always have a mind.




"To be able to avoid all desires": "desire", there are two kinds of
desires from the ode: desire for things and desire for pollution. ...
(abbreviated in the middle) These are called desires for things. ...
(abbreviated in the middle) These are called the desire to pollute. "To
be able to avoid all desires", "There are two ways to avoid all desires:
by suppressing or by cutting off. How is it possible to avoid desires by
suppressing them? When you see, 'With less pleasure, taste the
righteousness, and desire is like When one sees "more than
righteousness, desire is like a piece of flesh", one can avoid desire by
suppressing all; To be able to avoid desire from the suppression of the
kami... (Middle abbreviation) When the practice of non-ideal,
non-non-ideal, etc. arrives, one can avoid desire from the suppression
of desire. This is to avoid desire from the suppression of the kvas....
(Middle abbreviation) This is It is to be able to avoid all desires from
severing." In order to be able to avoid all kinds of desires.

"After abandoning those, one can overcome the storm": ""Those",
after he knows everything about the desire for things, after abandoning
the desire for pollution, after abandoning it, after driving it away,
after finishing it, and making it go After non-existence; after desire
is covered with abandonment, after abandonment, after expulsion, after
completion of action, after making it non-existent; after malicious
intent is covered... Throwing away regrets and covering it up... After
the doubts are covered, after they are abandoned, after they are
abandoned, after they are driven away, after the end of their actions,
and after they become non-existent, the violent flow of desire, the flow
of some, the flow of seeing, the flow of ignorance He can overcome the
storm, he can surpass, he can pass, he can cross, and he can overcome
it.” In order to let go of those, he can overcome the storm.

"Like a boat that is plucked out of [medium water] and become one
who reaches the other shore": If a heavy vessel with a load is plucked
out, emptied, and drained to become a light boat, it can go to the other
shore quickly, quickly, and with less difficulty. In the same way, in
the desire of things, after he is omniscient, in the desire of
defilement, after he abandons, after abandoning, after expelling, after
finishing, after making it come to non-existence; after the desire for
desire is covered... Cover with malice... Cover with slumber... Cover
with regret... Cover with suspicion after he abandons, after abandoning,
after driving away, after finishing his work, after making it
non-existent, he can quickly , go to the other shore quickly and with
less difficulty. The other side is called immortality, nirvana, which is
the cessation of all actions, the cessationofall attachments, cessation
of craving, cessation of greed, cessation, nirvana. "Being able to go to
the other shore", being able to reach the other shore; being able to
reach the other shore; being able to testify to the other shore. "Those
who have reached the other shore", whoever wants to go to the other
shore, he is the one who has reached the other shore; whoever goes to
the other shore, he is also the one who has reached the other shore;
whoever has already reached the other shore, he is also the one who has
reached the other shore.

This is said by the Blessed One: [ SN.35.238
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.238>]

"Having crossed over to the other shore, the Brahmins are standing
on the high ground." "Monks! 'Brahman' is a synonym for Arahants." ;
Universal knowledge reaches the other shore; abandonment reaches the
other bank; practice reaches the other bank; testifies to the other
bank; waits for the other bank; The one who renounces all pollution and
reaches the other shore; the one who attains the other shore by the
practice of the Four Noble Paths; the one who reaches the other shore by
the testimony of annihilation; the one who waits to reach the other
shore for all that is attained, he is the one who is free in the holy
precepts, the highest ( Paramita) the reacher; the at ease in holy
concentration, the highest attainment; the at ease in holy wisdom, the
highest attainment; the at ease in holy liberation, the highest
attainment, he is the Those who have reached the other shore; those who
have reached the other shore, those who have reached the end (target);
those who have reached the end, those who have reached the end; those
who have reached the end, those who have reached the boundary (the
ultimate); those who have reached the boundary, have reached the end;
Those who have reached the end, have reached the ambulance; those who
have reached the ambulance, have reached the refuge; those who have
reached the refuge, have reached the place of refuge; those who have
reached the refuge, have reached no terror; have reached the no. He who
is terrifying, hasreached the immortal; he has reached the immortal; he
has reached the immortal, he has reached Nirvana; he who has reached
Nibbana is the one who hasdescended, who has practiced action, who has
completed his journey, those who have reached the direction, Those who
have reached the end, those who have guarded the holy life, those who
have reached the highest view, those who have practiced the Way, those
who have abandoned pollution, those who have penetrated and unshakable,
and those who have witnessed the cessation of suffering, for him,
suffering is omniscient and concentrated. Abandoned, Dao practiced,
cessation is attested, attested what should be attested, attested by
attestation should be attested, attested at be attested testifying.

He is the onewho lifts the bar, the one who fills the ditches, the
onewho pulls out the pillar, the onewho has no bar, the one who has
fallen down the banner of the saint, the one who has lifted the burden,
the one who has been separated, the one who has given up the five
branches, the one who has had the six branches Those who have one
guardian and four reliances are those whose respective truths have been
removed, those who have sought and given up and are completely
destroyed, those who have no turbulent intentions, those who have calmed
their bodies and actions, those who are good in mind and liberated,
those who are liberated by wisdom, and those who have been liberated.
The highest person who is fully accomplished, the supreme person, who
has attained the supreme achievement, he neither composes nor
disassembles, does not accumulate and then abides; neither gives up nor
clings to, but gives up and then stands; neither Dispelling (Thailand
Version) does not accumulate, and stays after dispelling; neither
extinguishing nor igniting, standing after extinguishing [ SN.22.79
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.79>], is a dweller
with the state of unlearned precepts... Unlearned concentration...
Unlearned Aggregate ofWisdom ... Unlearned LiberationThose who live
after the polluted fire has been extinguished, those who are in a state
of no longer coming, those who have grasped [the victory over], those
who are in the state of liberation, those who are in the state of
compassion and pureness, those who are compassionate... ...joy...the
abiding one who is calm and pure, one who is absolutely pure, a state of
none other than the other(Ceylon Version) One who dwells in universal
purity, one who dwells in a state of liberation, one who dwells in a
state of contentment, one who dwells in the ultimate (boundary) of
aggregates, one who dwells in the ultimate One who dwells in the
ultimate, one who dwells in the ultimate place of interest, one who
dwells in the ultimate in rebirth, one who dwells in the ultimate in
rebirth, one who dwells in the ultimate in existence, one who dwells in
the ultimate in samsara The abbot on the ultimate, the abide in the
ultimate [, the abide in the ultimate], the abide in the last, the abide
in the last gathering (body), the one who holds the last body Arahant.

"This is his last existence, this is the last gathering (body), the
cycle of life and

　death, without his rebirth."

For example, after plucking out of the boat [middle water], he
becomes the one who reaches the other shore.

Because of that, the World-Honored One said,

"Thus, the one who is always mindful can avoid all desires, and

　after abandoning them, he can cross the turbulent current, like
one who has reached the other shore after he has been drawn out of a boat."

Explanation of the Sutra The first [COMPLETED].


Notes:
　1. Desires (people and wealth) are like an arrow piercing through
desires and desires ⇒ Avoiding desires is like avoiding snakes: thinking
beyond love (visattikā).
　2. When greed, hatred, ignorance, ignorance of the benefits, not the
Dharma, fear arises from it, and then follows it bitterly, like a
shipwreck.
　12/10/2020 15:25
(1) "Arhat/Arhat/Araha/Araha (SA); Yingzhen/Zhenzhen (GA);
Wushu/Nothing/Zhenzhen/Zhenzhen/True/Araha/Araha (MA); Arahant/Nothing
written/Zhizhen/True (DA); Arahant/Zhenzhen (AA)", in the Southern
Tradition as "Arhat" (arahaṃ, arahant, meaning translated as "should;
should offer"), wisdom The English translation of the bun monk is
"Accomplished One", and the English translation of the Bodhi monk is not
translated. DN.29 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=29>is
also called "Fourth Fruit" (catutthaṃ phalaṃ).
(2) "Arhatta state" (arahatta, also translated as "arhat nature; Arahant
fruit"), translated by Bodhi monks in English as "arhat state;
Arahantship" (arahantship).
Note:

 The word “desire” (kāmayānassa), kāmayāna has two interpretations:
one is the present participle of “desire” (kāmayati), and the other is
“one driven by desire” (kāma+yāna=kāma yamāne), just as The following
explanation says.

 「像什麼樣」(yādiso)，《正法光明》以高、矮、黑、白、金色皮膚、胖、
瘦等長相(yādisoti liṅgavasena yādiso vā tādiso vā hotu, dīgho vā rasso
vā kāḷo vā odāto vā maṅguracchavi vā kiso vā thūlo vāti attho.)解說，
「如努力」(yathāyutto)則舉種種事業的努力，或誦說的努力，或生活負擔的努力
(Yathāyuttoti yogavasena yena vā tena vā yutto hotu, navakammayutto vā
uddesayutto vā vāsadhurayutto vāti attho.)解說，「如安排」(yathāvihito)
舉種種工作的主管等(Yathāvihitoti yathāṭhapito
navakammādhiṭṭhāyikādivasena.)解說，「如種類」(yathāpakāro)舉已住立者、
燈、指導者(Yathāpakāroti yathāpakārena patiṭṭhito padīpanāyakādivasena.)
解說，「凡已到達處」(yaṃṭhānappatto)舉將軍、長者處(狀態)等
(Yaṃṭhānappattoti yaṃ ṭhānantaraṃ patto senāpatiseṭṭhiṭṭhānādivasena.)解
說，「凡具備法」(yaṃdhammasamannāgato)舉頭陀支等( Yaṃdhammasamannāgatoti
yena dhammena upāgato dhutaṅgādivasena.)解說。

 「以具念的狀態為具念的」(sattattā sato)，《正法光明》的說明，前作
sattattā sato，後作satattā sato，《小義釋》〈阿逸多學生婆羅門所問的解
說〉中則作satiyā samannāgatattā sato，今依satattā sato譯。

 「不漂浮的狀態」(apilāpanatā)，《正法光明》說，因為這個[具念]跟隨進
入所緣，因此被稱為不漂浮的狀態(Ārammaṇañhi esā anupavisati, tasmā
‘‘apilāpanatā’’ti vuttā)。

 「世間中那個愛著」(Loke vā sā visattikā)，《正法光明》說，凡這個以
種種而被稱為愛著者，就是在那蘊的世間；非從其它諸蘊轉起(yā esā
anekappakārena vuttā visattikā, sā khandhaloke eva, na aññatra khandhehi
pavattatīti attho)。「或世間中該愛著」(loke vā taṃ visattikaṃ)：就在蘊的
世間被轉起這個被稱為(所謂的)愛著的渴愛(khandhaloke eva pavattaṃ etaṃ
visattikasaṅkhātaṃ taṇhaṃ)。

 「渡過」(Tarati)，《正法光明》說，當避開欲時(kāme parivajjento)或以
身的隨觀(kāyānupassanena)或以戒(sīlena)。「超越」(Uttarati)：當捨斷污染
時(kilese pajahanto)或以身的隨觀或以定(samādhinā)。「通過」(Patarati)：
當切斷其所依處之因時(tesaṃ patiṭṭhāhetuṃ chindanto)或以受的隨觀
(vedanānupassanena)或以毘婆舍那(vipassanāya)。「越過」(Samatikkamati)：
當征服輪迴時(saṃsāraṃ atikkamanto)或以心的隨觀(cittānupassanena)或以道
(maggena)。「克服」(Vītivattati)：當結生不可能生起時
(paṭisandhiabhabbuppattikaṃ karonto)或以果(phalenāti)。

 「低劣意向的」(chatukkā，或jatukkā)，此字未見詞典收錄，《正法光明》
以「低劣意向的」(ajjhāsayahīnena)解說，今準此譯。

 「已降下狀態者」(vuṭṭhavāso)，《正法光明》以「阿羅漢住、別住於十聖
住[十個聖者的住所, DN.34 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN
/dm.php?keyword=34>]」(arahā dasasu ariyavāsesu vasi parivasi)解說。

 「已到方向者」(gatadiso)，「方向(方位)」，《正法光明》以「涅槃方
向」(nibbānadisaṃ)解說。

 「完成與貫通後」(sampaṭipādiyitvā)，此字未見詞典收錄，《正法光明》
以「完成、貫通後」(sampādiyitvā paṭivijjhitvā)解說，今準此譯。
