
Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
2. Explanation of the eight -set sutraof the cave
　　Next of the eight-set sutra of the cave will say:
　　7. Those who are stuck in the cave are covered by many, and those
who stay have sunk in ignorance,
　　　like those who are indeed in Far away, because in the world of
desire, it is indeed difficult to let go.
　　"The card is covered by many in the cave": "It is called 'ka', but
only those caves can be said. Caves are called bodies, 'body' or 'cave'
or 'limbs' or 'accumulation (body) )" or "boat" or "car" or "flag" or
"anthill" or "castle" or "nest" or "hut" or "tumor" or "urn" {or "dragon
elephant"}, these are the body A synonym for "stuck in a cave" in which
he is stuck, entangled, suspended, attached, anchored, obstructed, as in
a wall stake or wall hook where the tumor is stuck, entangled , hung,
attached, anchored, obstructed. Likewise, in the cave he was stuck,
entangled, hung, attached, anchored, obstructed. This is said by the
Blessed One: [ SN.23.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=23.2>, SN.23.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=23.3>]
　　Radha! All those who have desire, greed, joy, craving, clinging,
clinging, the basis of the mind, clinging, latent tendency of vexation,
clinging there, clinging strongly to it are called "beings"; Radha!
Whoever is receiving... (abbreviated in the middle) Radha! Anyone
thinking about... Radha! Whoever is on the line... Radha! Those who have
desires, greed, joy, craving, clinging, clinging, the base of the mind,
clinging, latent tendencies of afflictions, clinging there, clinging
strongly to it are called "beings". "All beings (stuck)" is a "synonym
of sticking" for being stuck in a cave. "covered by many", covered by
many defilements; covered by greed; covered by hatred; covered by
delusion; covered by anger; covered by hatred; covered by hidden evil;
covered by domination; covered by jealousy; covered by stinginess;
covered by Covered by deceit; covered by cunning; covered by
stubbornness; covered by passion; covered by slowness; covered by
extreme slowness; covered by arrogance; All vexation, covered by all
unwholesome contrivance, enlarged, covered, obstructed (obstructed),
enclosed, obstructed, closed (covered), concealed, covered. "Because of
being stuck in the cave is covered by many.
　　"Those who stay have sunk in ignorance": "When people stay, those
who are greedy stay because of greed (power); those who are angry stay
because of hatred; those who are ignorant stay because of delusion;
those who are bound stay because of slowness Those who are clinging stay
because of seeing; those who come to distraction stay because of
delusion; those who do not come to conclusion stay because of doubts;
those who come to fortitude stay because of the underlying tendency of
afflictions, such are those who stay
　　. Said: "Monks! There are things that can be recognized by the eyes,
things that are wanted, things that are loved, things that are
desirable, things that are lovable, things that accompany desire, things
that are tainted by greed, if the bhikkhus rejoice, welcome, and
continue to hold on to it. ...Bhikkhus! There is a sound that can be
recognized by the ear... (Abbreviated in the middle) the smell that can
be recognized by the nose... the taste that can be recognized by the
tongue... The touch that can be recognized by the body... can be
recognized by the mind the dharma of what is desired, what is desired,
what is desired, what is desirable, what is lovable, what is accompanied
by one’s desires, what is greedy, if the monks rejoice, welcome,
continue (stay) abiding in it…. [ SN.35.98
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.98>]” The same is true
people who stay.
　　This was said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus! When consciousness
abides (remains), abides on the clinging, the object, and the dwelling,
and is sprinkled with joy, and it can come to growth, growth, and
fullness. Bhikkhus! ...the feeling of clinging to ... (omitted in the
middle) the thinking of clinging to ... monks! When consciousness abides
(remains), abides on the clinging, the object, and the abide, and when
there is joy poured out, it can come to growth, growth, and fulfillment.
[ SN.22.53 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.53>] 』This
is also the one who stayed.
　　This was said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus! If there is craving,
joy, and cravingis the birth of mind and matter; where there is birth of
mind and matter, there are formations where there is the growth of the
formations, there isthe birth of the future rebirth; where there is the
birth of the future regeneration, there is the future birth, old age,
and death; where there is the future birth, age, and death, bhikkhus
them! I said, "There is sorrow, there is sorrow, and there is despair."
[ SN.12.64 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.64>]" This
is also the one who stays.
　　"Monks! If it is on the touch of food... (abbreviated in the middle)
Bhikkhus! If you are thinking about eating... (abbreviated in the
middle) Bhikkhus! If there is craving, joy, and craving in the
consciousness of food, where consciousness is established and increased;
where consciousness is established and increased, there is the birth of
mind and matter; where there is birth of name and form, there are
formations. Where there is growth of formations, there is birth of
future rebirth; where there is birth of future regeneration, there is
future birth, old age, and death; where there is future birth, old age,
and death, bhikkhu them! I said, "There is sorrow, there is sorrow, and
there is despair." [ SN.12.64
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.64>]" This is also the
one who stays.
　　'Having sunk in delusion', delusion is called the five desires:
things that can be recognized by the eyes, wanted, loved, desirable,
lovable, lustful, greedy colors; sounds that can be recognized by the
ears... smells that can be recognized by the nose... The taste that can
be recognized by the tongue... can be recognized by the body, what is
wanted, what is loved, what is agreeable, what is lovable, what is
associated with desire, what is tainted by greed. Why is ignorance
called the Five Desires? Most gods and people become ignorant, ignorant,
and confused among the five kinds of desires; , closed (covered),
covered, covered, for that reason ignorance is called the five desires.
"Submerged in ignorance", has sunk, entered, sneaked in, sunk in
ignorance. "Those who stay here are sunk in ignorance.
　　"Those who are like that are really far away": "'Remote', there are
three kinds of separation: physical separation, mental separation, and
dependentseparation. What is body separation? Here, monks are close to
the abodes where they live alone: ​​forests, under trees , mountains,
caves, caves, cemeteries, forests, open fields, haystacks, living away
with the body [living away with the body - Ni.14
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni14.htm>, 150 verse], he walks alone,
stands alone, sits alone, sleeps alone, sleeps alone Entering the
village for alms, returning alone, sitting alone in awalking alone,
walking alone, dwelling, moving, turning up, guarding, making existence,
making existence, this is body separation.
　　What is mind separation? Entering the first jhana The minds of those
who enter the second jhāna have been separated from the lids, the minds
of those who enter the second jhāna have been separated from the
searchers, the minds of those who enter the third jhāna have been
separated from joy, the minds of those who have entered the fourth jhāna
have been separated from happiness and suffering, and The minds of those
who are in the boundless space have been separated from the thoughts of
form, opposites, and all kinds of thoughts. The minds of those who have
entered the boundless place of consciousness have already wanted to go
away from the boundless place of consciousness. The minds of those who
are not thinking, who are not thinking, have been away from the place of
nothingness, and the minds of those who are Sudophanstaken from the view
, doubt, and precepts ., seeing the latent tendency of afflictions, the
latenttendency of doubting afflictions, and the contamination that
coexists with them, the mind of the newcomer has changed from gross
desire and greed, aversion, from gross desire, greed, and aversionto
afflictions , and Far away from the pollution that coexists with, the
mind of the non-returner is freed from the residual attachments of lust
and aversion, from the residual tendencies of greed and defilements,
from the potential tendencies of the defilements of aversion, and from
the defilements that coexist with them. Colorless greed, arrogance,
delusion, ignorance, the latent tendency of slow afflictions, the latent
tendencyof greed afflictions, the latent tendencyof ignorance
afflictions, and the contamination that coexists with them are far away
from the outside world and everything. This is mind renunciation.
　　What is clinging to distance? Dependence is called defilements and
aggregates and fabrications; Dependence is called immortality, nirvana,
which is the cessation of allactions, the cessation of allattachments,
the cessation of craving, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
nirvana, and the cessation of all attachments. , which is dependent on
staying away. Away from the body belongs to those who are constantly
away from the body and are willing to be free from desires; abstinence
from the mind belongs to the purity of the mind, reaching the highest
purity;
　　"He is indeed far away", whoever is so stuck in the cave, so covered
by so many, so sunk in ignorance, he is far away from the body; far away
from the heart; By far away, far away, very far away, not near; not
near; not near; pulled away (Ceylon version). "Like that", like that, of
that dwelling, of that kind, of like that, the one who has sunk in
ignorance. ' For like those he was indeed far away.
　　"Because in the world of desire, it is indeed difficult to let go":
"desire", there are two kinds of desire from the ode: desire for things
and desire for pollution. What are the desires of things? Desirable
color, Desirable sound, Desirable smell, Desirable smell, Desirable
touch, Bedding, Clothing, Handmaids and servants, Goats and sheep,
Chickens and pigs, Elephants, horses, horses, horses, fields, houses,
gold, gold coins, villages and towns A city, a country, a country, a
storehouse, a warehouse, anything that can be tainted by greed is the
desire for things. In addition, there are past desires, future desires,
present desires, internal desires, external desires, internal and
external desires, inferior desires, intermediate desires, sublime
desires, misery desires, human desires Desires, Desires of God, Desires
That Have Been Presented Desires Created Desires Uncreated Desires
Desire for cherishing, desire for all things in the realm of desire,
desire for all things in the realm of form, and desire for all things in
the formless realm. Righteousness; the desire to be intoxicated with
righteousness, these are called the desires of things.
　　What are the desires for pollution? The lust of the will, the lust
of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the
lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust,
the craving of the lust, Lust love, lust, lust, lust, lust, lust, lust,
lust, lust, lust.
　　"Seeing those roots of desire, desire you to be produced by thought
(intention),
　　　I will not think of you, so desire will not exist." [Jat.8.39 verse]
　　These are called defiled desires. "in the world": in The world of
suffering, the world of human beings, the world of gods, the world of
khandha, the world of worlds, the world of beings. "Because in the world
of desire it is really hard to let go": "Because in the world of desire
it is hard to let go, hard to let go, hard to let go of, hard to break
(conquer), hard to untie, hard to loosen difficult, difficult to escape,
difficult to overcome, difficult to overcome, difficult to overcome.”
Because in the world of desire, it is indeed difficult to let go.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Those who are stuck in the cave are covered by many, and those who
stay have sunk in ignorance.
　　　Those like that are really far away, because in the world of
desire, it is really hard to let go.
　　8. They are bound by the pleasures of being for the reasons they
want, and they are hard to liberate because they are not liberated from
others,
　　　expecting later or even over former ones, eagerly looking forward
to these desires or over former ones.
　　"To be bound by the pleasure of being for the reason of wanting":
"Wanting is called craving, that is craving, craving (perfect craving),
submissive craving, accommodating, rapture, craving, craving of the
mind, wanting , infatuation, clinging, craving, great greed, tainted,
muddy, disturbing, deceitful, [the root of samsara], [suffering]
fertility, tailoring (craving), with nets, rivers, bindings, ropes,
Perseverance, accumulation, companionship, desire, means of being,
desire forest (forest), love forest (forest), intimacy [santhavo?],
love, expectation, relationship, desire, desire, state of desire, desire
for sex, voice desire for smell, desire for smell, desire for taste,
desire for touch, desire to get, desire for wealth (the desire of man/
Ni.1 <https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>, 3 verses), desire for
sons, desire for life, desire, desire, supplication, Covetousness, the
state of covetousness, greed, the appearance of covetousness, the state
of having covetousness, inquiring [the place of gain], wishing for the
good, Unlawful greed, unrighteous greed ,desire, desire, hope, envy,
full hope Love, craving for sound, craving for smell, craving for taste,
craving for touch, craving for Dhamma, rush, yoke (binding), tie,
clinging, obstacle, covering, covering, tying, With defilements, the
latent tendency of vexation, entanglement, gluttony, stinginess, the
root of suffering, the cause of suffering, the occurrence of suffering,
the devil's net, the devil's hook [, the devil's food], the devil's
realm [, the devil's abode, the devil's food] The bondage of craving],
river of craving, net of craving, rope of craving, sea of ​​craving,
greed, root of unwholesome greed. "The reason for wanting", "the reason
for wanting, the reason for wanting, the reason for wanting, the reason
for wanting, and the source for wanting. ' for the desired reason.
　　"Being bound by the pleasures of existence", one type of happiness:
pleasant feeling, two types of existence: pleasant feelings and
satisfying things, three types of existence: youth, disease-free, life,
four types of existence: profit, Fame, admiration, well-being
(happiness), the five pleasures of existence: pleasing sight, pleasing
sound, pleasing smell, pleasing taste, pleasing touch, six pleasures of
existence: fullness of eyes, fullness of ears, and fullness of nose ,
the tongue is full, the body is full, the mind is full. Bound by the
Pleasures of Being: Bound by the Pleasures of Feelings, Bound by the
Satisfaction, Bound by Youth, Bound by Sickness, Bound by Life, Bound by
Gains, Bound by Fame Binding, Binding on Appreciation, Binding on
Pleasure, Binding on Desirable Form, Binding on Sound... Smell...
Taste... Binding on Desirable Touch, Enough with Eyes Binding on top,
bound on ears, nose, tongue, body, mind, feet, enlarged, bound, bound
(tightened), attached, fixed, obstructed. ' to be bound by the pleasures
of existence for the reasons of desire.
　　"They are hard to liberate because they are not liberated from other
people": "It is hard for them to take pleasure in things, or beings here
are hard to liberate. How is it that they take pleasure in things that
are hard to liberate? Suffering is hard to get rid of, satisfying things
are hard to get rid of, youth is hard to get rid of, disease-free is
hard to get rid of, life is hard to get rid of, gain is hard to get rid
of, fame is hard to get rid of, admiration is hard to get rid of ,
happiness is difficult to liberate, agreeable forms are difficult to
liberate, agreeable sounds... smells... tastes... all touches are
difficult to liberate, eyes are difficult to release, ears, nose,
tongue, body and mind are complete It is difficult to escape, difficult
to escape, difficult to escape forward, difficult to untie, difficult to
loosen, difficult to escape, difficult to pass, difficult to overcome,
difficult to pass through. This is how they enjoy things that are It is
difficult to liberate.
　　How is it that sentient beings are difficult to liberate here? It is
difficult for sentient beings to liberate from pleasure, it is difficult
for sentient beings to liberate from satisfactory things, it is
difficult for sentient beings to liberate from youth, and it is
difficult for sentient beings to liberate from disease-free It is
difficult for sentient beings to liberate from life, it is difficult for
sentient beings to liberate from gain, it is difficult for sentient
beings to liberate from fame, it is difficult for sentient beings to
liberate from admiration, it is difficult for sentient beings to
liberate from happiness, and it is difficult for sentient beings to
liberate from desire. It is difficult to liberate all living beings from
the agreeable sound... from smell... from taste... from touch, it is
difficult to liberate from the eye, and it is difficult to liberate from
the ear, nose, tongue, body and mind, and it is difficult to pull out.
It is difficult to pull out completely, difficult to rise up, difficult
to completely rise up, difficult to untangle, difficult to loosen,
difficult to escape, difficult to get over, difficult to overcome,
difficult to pass. This is why sentient beings are difficult to liberate
here. "Because they are not free from others ,
　　" they who have fallen into the quagmire cannot pull out the others
who have fallen into the quagmire. This was said by the Blessed One:
"Cunda!" " It's impossible. Chunda! "Being untrained, untrained,
unparinibbanawill make others conditioned, trained, parnibbana." This is
impossible. [ MN.8 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=8>]'
This is because there is no liberation from others.
　　Or you have no other liberators, if they can liberate, by their own
power (fortitude), by their own strength, by their own vitality, by
their own effort (valor), by their own power of men, by their own With
the strength of their own people, with their own human vigor, with their
own human effort, with their own correct way, following the right way,
not the opposite way, following the righteous way, and the law following
the law, they can be liberated when they practice it. , and thus also
because of not being freed from others.
　　This is also said by the Blessed One: [ Ni.22
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni22.htm>]
　　"For liberation I shall not be able: Dodage! Anyone who doubts in
the world,
　　　when you know the best Dharma, so you will ride through this storm. '
　　This is also because of not being freed from others.
　　This is also said by the World-Honored One: [Dhp.12, 165 verse]
　　"Those who have done evil, become defiled, and those
　　　who do not do evil, become pure. The
　　　pure and the impure are separate, and neither can make the other
pure. '
　　This is also because of not being freed from others.
　　This is also said by the Blessed One: "Similarly, Brahmins! Nirvana
abides, the path leading to Nirvana abides, my persuasion abides,
however, when my disciples are instructed in this way, in this way,
there are some that reach the ultimate end of Nirvana, and some that do
not, Brahman! What can I do here? Brahman! The Tathagata is a guide. [
MN.107 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=107>] The Buddha
only told (points) the way, and when they practiced it themselves they
would be liberated. ' This is also because of not being freed from
others. "It is difficult for them to be liberated because there is no
liberation from others.
　　"Looking forward to the later or even above the former": "The later
is called the future, the former is called the past, and besides, after
clinging to the past, the future and the present come after; after
clinging to the future, the past and the present come before .How is the
expectation above the past? "I used to have this kind of color" looking
for joy there [ MN.132
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=132>]; "I used to have
this feeling...I used to have this kind of thinking...I In the past
there was such action...I was in the past with this consciousness'
looking for joy there, this is looking forward to what was in the past.
　　Or, 'My eyes were like that in the past, and form was like that. '
There, consciousness is bound by lust; when consciousness is bound by
lust, I rejoice in it; and when I rejoice in it, this is also an
expectation above the former. 'My ear was like that, and the sound was
It's like that."...(Abbreviation) "My nose was like that in the past
tense, and it smelled like that."..."My tongue was like that in the past
tense, and it smelled like that."... "My body was like that in the past,
and my touch was like that."..."My mind was like that in the past, and
the dharma was like that." There, consciousness is bound by desire; When
he is bound by lust, he rejoices in it; when he rejoices in it [ MN.133
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=133>], this is also an
expectation above the former.
　　Or, whoever laughed, talked, and played with women before, he
relished it, Desire for it, and come to happiness[ AN.7.50
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.50>] because of it, and
thus also expect from the former. How to expect from the latter? "I
shall have such lust in the future
." Look there. Joy, "I will have this feeling in the future....I will
have this kind of thinking in the future....I will have this kind of
action in the future....I will have this kind of consciousness in the
future." There Look for joy, which is to look forward to what comes later.
　　Or, "My eyes will be like that in the future, and my colors will be
like that. ' If you hope for what you have not obtained, you will
rejoice in the hope that comes from your heart ;when you rejoice in it,
you will look forward to it later. "My ears will be like that in the
future, and my voice will be like that. '... 'My nose will be like that
in the future, and the smell will be like that. '...'My tongue will be
like that in the future, it will taste like that. "..."My body will be
like that in the future, and the touch will be like that. "..."My future
will be like that, the dharma will be like that. ' When you hope for
what you haven't obtained, you rejoice in the hope that comes from your
heart; when you rejoice in it, you also look forward to what comes later.
　　Or, "I will take this precept, or abstinence, or do asceticism, or
practice Brahma, and become a deity, or some deity. ' When you hope for
what you haven't obtained, you rejoice in the hope that comes from your
heart; when you rejoice in it, you also look forward to what comes
later. ' to look forward to later or even earlier.
　　"Looking on these desires or on the former": "'In these desires', in
the present five desires wanting, receiving, wishing, desiring, praying.
'Or above the former longing,' longing, wishing, begging for the past
five desires." For these longings or the former.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Being bound by the pleasures of being for the reasons they want,
they are difficult to free because they are not freed from others,
　　　expecting later or even over the former, before these desires or
the former. 9. Those who are greedy and zealous in lust are
　　dull , those who are stingy are fixed on what is wrong,
　　　and they weep when there is suffering: Where shall we be after
death from here?
　　"Those who are greedy and ardent in desire are ignorant": ""Desire",
"There are two kinds of desire from the hymn: desire for things and
desire for pollution... (abbreviated in the middle) These are called
desire for things... ( These are called polluted desires. Covetousness
is called craving, which is greed, greed... (Middle abbreviation) greed,
the root of greed. , fascinated, tainted, attached, fixed, obstructed.”
For craving for lust.
　　"Enthusiastic", whoever seeks, seeks, and seeks in all kinds of
desires, the one who has the character, the one who is more, the one who
values ​​that, the one who takes that as the object, the one who strives
for that, the one who leans toward that, and the one who overcomes that
, to the one who increases, they are zealots. Whoever seeks, seeks, and
seeks in all forms because of craving... in sound... in smell... in
taste... in touch... Those who focus on that, those who take that as the
object, those who strive for that, those who lean toward that, those who
overcome, those who increase, they are also those who are passionate
about desire. Whatever is gained by craving in form...in sound...in
smell...in taste...in touch, is that character, that is more, that is
more, that that is the object , toward the one who strives, the one who
leans toward that, the one who overcomes, and the one who increases,
they are also those who are passionate about desire. Whoever is used by
craving in the form...in the sound...in the smell...in the taste...in
the touch is the one who has the character, the one who is more, the one
who values ​​the one, the one who takes that as the object , toward the
one who strives, the one who leans toward that, the one who overcomes,
and the one who increases, they are also those who are passionate about
desire. For example, critics are keen to criticize, workers are keen to
do work, those who walk on the ground are keen to practice, and those
who meditate are keen to meditate. In the same way, whoever seeks,
seeks, and seeks in all kinds of desires, the one who has the character,
the one who is more, the one who values ​​that, the one who takes that
as the object, the one who strives for that, the one who leans toward
that, the one who overcomes that, The one who increases, they are lovers
of sensuality. Whoever seeks, seeks, and seeks in all forms because of
craving... in sound... in smell... in taste... in touch... Those who
focus on that, those who take that as the object, those who strive for
that, those who lean toward that, those who overcome, those who
increase, they are also those who are passionate about desire. Whatever
is gained by craving in form...in sound...in smell...in taste...in
touch, is that character, that is more, that is more, that that is the
object , toward the one who strives, the one who leans toward that, the
one who overcomes, and the one who increases, they are also those who
are passionate about desire. Whoever is used by craving in the form...in
the sound...in the smell...in the taste...in the touch is the one who
has the character, the one who is more, the one who values ​​the one,
the one who takes that as the object , toward the one who strives, the
one who leans toward that, the one who overcomes, and the one who
increases, they are also those who are passionate about desire.
　　"Darkness" means that most gods and people become ignorant,
ignorant, and confused among the five kinds of desires; live, covered,
closed (covered), covered, covered. "Those who are greedy and zealous
are ignorant.
　　"The stingy are fixed above the unrighteous": "The 'stingy', 'they
go down' are the stingers; , taught, taught them not to care' as stingy.
What is 'they go down ' as stingy? They go to hell; they go to the
realm"Walk away" is a miser. What is a "stingy" and also called a miser?
There are five types of miser: [to] miserliness at home, miserliness at
home, miserliness in gain, miserliness in praise, miserliness in Dharma,
all like Such being stingy, being stingy, being stingy, being greedy,
being stingy, being stingy, and having a tight grip on the mind is
called being stingy. Besides, being stingy is also being stingy; being
stingy; For being stingy. With this stinginess and intolerance, people
become loose, and in this way, they are called stingy people. How is it
that "does not care about the words, ways, teachings, and teachings of
Buddhist disciples" to be stingy? "If you don't care, don't want to
listen, don't listen to, don't know with your heart, you don't care
about the words, ways, teachings, and teachings of Buddhist disciples.
If you are disloyal, disobedient, or have opposing behavior, you should
turn away from others ." Yes ,this means that they don’t care about the
words, ways of speaking, teachings, and teachings of Buddhist
disciples.” They are stingy people.
　　“They are fixed on what is wrong.” fixed in karma ; fixed in wrong
intention; fixed in wrong killing; fixed in wrong taking withoutgiving ;
fixed in wrong licentiousnessfixed on unrighteous lies; on unrighteous
alienation... on unrighteousvulgar speech... fixed on unrighteous
profanity; on unrighteous greed...by unrighteous malice Fixed; fixed on
wrong views; fixed on wrong behaviors; fixed on five wrong desires;
fixed on wrong five lids, deeply fixed (attachment) [, stuck ], stopped,
stuck, entered, tainted, oriented, attached, fixed, obstructed. "For the
miser they are fixed on the wrong.
　　"When there is suffering, they weep": "When there is suffering," it
means that suffering has been reached, suffering has been reached, and
suffering has been approached; Near death. 'They weep', they whine, weep
(talk a lot), mourn, weary, weep, weep beating their chests, and come to
confusion." They weep for bitter results.
　　"Where will we be after we die from here": "Where will we be after
we die from here? We'll be hell; we'll be beasts; we'll be ghosts; we'll
be people; we will become gods; we will become colored; we will become
colorless; we will become thinkers; we will become non-thinkers; Does
our future life not exist? What will our future life be? How will our
future life be? What will our future life be, and what will it be [in
the future]?” Leap into doubt, into doubt, arise The doubters they
grumble, weep (talk a lot), mourn, weary, weep, beating their breasts
and wailing, and come to confusion." For where will we be after we die
from here.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Those who are greedy and zealous are sluggish, those who are stingy
are fixed on what is wrong, and
　　　they weep when there is a bitter result: Where shall we be after
death from here?"
　　10. Therefore it is here that one should Learning, you should know
that whatever is "unrighteous" in the world
　　　should not be unrighteous for that reason, because the wise say
that this life is few.
　　"Therefore, it is here that people should learn": "'Therefore',
'with that reason, that cause, that condition, that cause, when you see
this fault in lust.' For this reason. 'Should learn', there are There
are three kinds of learning: the learning of increasing the precepts,
the learning of increasing the mind, and the learning of increasing the
wisdom.
　　What is the learning of increasing the precepts? Here, the monks are
the precepts, who live underthe protection of the self-control of the
Paratimcha, who have the right conduct and conduct. If you see terrible
things in all the petty sins, you will learn them after you receive and
uphold them. The small and great precepts are the foundation of your
precepts, the [self] restraint of behavior, the entrance of
self-control, the good dharma, etc. ), this is the study of increasing
the precepts.
　　What is the study of increasing the mind? Here, the bhikkhu, after
leaving desire, leaving the unwholesome dharma, and entering after
entering, abides insearch and service, and from separation produces joy
and happiness. The first jhāna, from the pacification of seeking and
vigilance, the clarity within oneself, the single -mindedness of the
mind, after entering the second jhāna in which there is no seeking and
no attention, and bliss and happiness arise from concentration.Fading
away, abiding in peace, mindful and wise, feeling happiness with the
body, after entering the third jhāna where the sages told him "he is a
peaceful one, a mindful one, a peaceful one ", abandonment and
obedienceto happiness. The renunciation of suffering, the cessation of
all previous joys and sorrows, and after entering the fourth jhāna,
which is neither suffering nor pleasure, and which is calm and utterly
pure , this is the learning of the mind.
　　What is Zeng Shang Hui Xue? Here, the bhikkhu is the wise one,
possessing the wisdom that leadsto arising and passing away , the holy,
the insight, that leadsto the complete cessation of suffering, and he
knows as it really is, 'This is suffering. ' Knowing truthfully 'this is
a set of sufferings. ' Knowing truthfully 'this is the cessation of
suffering. ' Knowing truthfully 'this is the path leading to the path of
suffering. ' Knowing as it is: 'These are leakages. ' Knowing
truthfully: 'This is a missing set. ' Knowing as it is: 'This is the
cessation of leakage. ' Knowing as it is: 'This is the path leading to
the stray path. ' This is Zeng Shang Hui Xue.
　　These three lessons should be learned when facing (noticing); when
knowing should be learned; when seeing should be learned; when examining
should be learned; when the mind is established (determination) should
be learned; You should learn when you are vigorously striving; you
should learn when your mindfulness arises; you should learn when your
mind is concentrated; you should learn when you understand with wisdom;
you should learn when you realize that you should be realized; you
should learn when you know everything. You should learn when you know;
you should learn when you let go of what should be abandoned; you should
learn when you practice what should be practiced; when you think that
you should testify, you should study, practice, practice well, and turn
around after you hold it. rise.
　　"Here", of this view; of this liking; of this liking; in this
clinging; in this dharma; In the holy life; in the teachings of this
master; in this individual; in this human world, because that is called
"here". "Human", all living beings, human beings... (middle abbreviated)
those born of Manu. "For so right here one should learn.
　　"It should be known that whatever is 'unrighteous' in the world":
"'Anything', totally and completely, completely in every way, without
remainder, whole, this is the universal word, 'everything'. "Should know
"unrighteous"", should know that unrighteous body karma is
"unrighteous"; should know that unrighteous speech karma is
"unrighteous"; should know that unrighteous mental karma is
"unrighteous"; should know unrighteous killing should know that what is
not right is not given and take it as "unrighteous"; should know that
unrighteous sexual immorality is "unrighteous"; should know that
unrighteous lies are "unrighteous"; Unrighteous"; should know
unrighteous foul language as "unrighteous"; should know unrighteous
profanity as "unrighteous"; should know unrighteous greed as
"unrighteous"; should know unrighteous malice as "unrighteous"; One
should know that wrong views are "unrighteous"; one should know that
wrong actions are "wrong"; one should know that the five kinds of
desires that are wrong are "wrong"; It should be known, it should be
understood, it should be different, it should be known, and it should be
understood. "In the world", in the world of suffering... (abbreviated in
the middle) in the world. ' to know what is "wrong" in the world.
　　"Because of that, one should not do wrongdoing": "[With] the cause
of wrong body karma, one should not practice wrongdoing; the cause of
wrong speech action should not be wrong; The cause of unrighteous
killing should not be unrighteous; the cause of unrighteous killing
should not be unrighteous; the cause of unrighteous sexual immorality
should not be unrighteous; the cause of unrighteous lies should not be
unrighteous; unrighteous The cause of discordant language should not be
wrong; the cause of wrong vulgar language should not be wrong; the cause
of wrong profanity should not be wrong; the cause of wrong greed should
not be wrong; the cause of wrong malice should not be wrong. The cause
should not be wrong; the cause of wrong views should not be wrong; the
cause of wrong actions should not be wrong; the cause of wrong five
desires should not be wrong; the cause of wrong five hindrances should
not be wrong. What should be wrong; the cause of wrong thinking should
not be wrong; the cause of wrong hope should not be wrong; the cause of
wrong desire should not be wrong: should not be practiced, should not be
fully practiced, should not be After being upheld, turn around.” Because
of that, there should be no wrongdoing.
　　"For the wise say that this life is little": "life" is the
continuation of life; the turning of life, existence, action; the
protection (keep) of life, the root of life. In addition, life is less
by two factors: limited life by existence is less, or limited life by
nature (self-taste) is less. How is the limited life that survives less?
Live in the past in the past, [but] not in the present, not in the
future; live in the future in the future, but not in the present, not in
the past; live in the present, but in the past Not alive, not alive in
the future.
　　"Life and the individual, all (only) pleasure and pain,
　　　are governed by a single mind: capable of turning up and down in
an instant.
　　　All the heavens exist for eighty-four thousand kalpas,
　　　but neither do they live by the union of two minds.
　　　Whoever dies or survives here, the aggregates are destroyed,
　　　and everything that has passed is equally irreversible. Whoever
　　　is destroyed immediately, and whoever is destroyed in the future,
　　　[and] those who are destroyed in the middle are not unequal in
characteristics.
　　　Born out of what did not happen, he
　　　lives in the present, and the world becomes dead with the
destruction of his heart, and it is for the highest interest to settle
down.
　　　They occur as downward [flowing], are intended to be changed,
　　　they turn [as] the uncut stream of water, conditioned by the six
senses.
　　　What has been destroyed comes without hoarding, what is not piled
up in the future,
　　　and whatever is arisen they persist like mustard seeds at the tip
of a cone [instant].
　　　 For the arising dhammas, the cessation is placed before them, and
　　　the disintegrating dhammas remain without mixing with the previous
ones.
　　　Invisibly they come, from destruction they see and go,
　　　like lightning in the sky, they arise and dissipate. "In
　　this way, the limited life that survives is small.
　　How is it that the limited life of nature (self-taste) is few? Life
is the dependence of the out-breath; life is the dependence of the
in-breath; life is the dependence of the in-breath and out-breath;
Dependence on: the root of these is weak; the cause of these is also
weak; those who take them as a condition are also weak; those who use
them as a force are also weak; the common ground (ground) of these is
also weak; the connection of these also weak; these coexisting are also
weak; those who are connected with them are weak; these are weak with
each other; these are not with each other; these destroy each other; And
these do not make one another's dwelling; whatsoever arises is not found.
　　"No one disappears for no one, and these are indeed all destructions,
　　　these were born from before, and those who produced them also died
　　　before, and the former and the latter did not see each other. "In
　　this way, the limited life of nature (self-taste) is rare.
　　In addition, comparing the lives of the four great kings and gods,
to humans, life is small, life is insignificant, life is only a little,
life is momentary, life is fast, life is short, life is not long. Yes,
life doesn't live long, the thirty-three-day gods... (middle
abbreviated) Yamo gods... Tusita gods... Huale gods... Hetransforms into
Zizigods...Compared with Brahma gods' lives, they come to people. It is
said that life is small, life is trivial, life is only a little, life is
momentary, life is fast, life is short, life is not long, life is short
lived.
　　This was said by the World Honored One:
　　"Bhikkhus! The lifespan of a human being is short, and he must come
to the next life. The wise should wake up, do good deeds, and practice
the holy life. All living things die, bhikkhus! Whoever lives long, he A
hundred years or more."
　　"The lifespan of a man is short, and the good should despise it, and
　　　should live like a head to be burned, [for] he who does not die
will not come. [ SN.4.9
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=4.9>]
　　　Days and nights pass, and life is destroyed, The lifespan of
　　　 a mortalman is consumed like water in a small river." [ SN.4.10
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=4.10>]
　　"For the wise say that this life is few": "The wise are the wise;
the wise are the wise; the wise are the wise; the reproach are the wise,
and wisdom is called wisdom. , that is wisdom, understanding, simple
selection, investigation, method selection, identification,
discrimination, close inspection, wise (erudite), skillful, wise,
contemplation, deep contemplation, inspection, vast (comprehensive),
wisdom, wise, admirable Posana, Right Knowledge, Thorn Stick, Wisdom,
Wisdom Root, Wisdom Power, Wisdom Sword, Wisdom Hall, Wisdom Light,
Wisdom Light, Wisdom Light, Wisdom Treasure, No Delusion "Discussion of
Wisdom" Section 109. Kuzhi
<https://agama-buddhason-org.translate.goog/Ps/Ps1.htm?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=en&_x_tr_pto=wapp>], who is wise in the state of that wisdom. In addition, the wise man of khandha, the wise man of world, the wise man of locus, the wise man of dependent arising, the wise man of mindfulness, the wise man of righteousness The sages, the sages of divine feet, the sages of roots, the sages of power, the sages of enlightenment, the sages of the path, the sages of fruition, the sages of nirvana, these sages say: "For human beings, life is little, and life is insignificant. Life is only a little, life is momentary, life is fast, life is short, life is not long, life is short.” They say this, say this, talk this way, explain this, Say so." Because the wise say that this life is few.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Therefore, it is here that one should learn, and should know that
whatever is 'unrighteous' in the world
　　　should not be unrighteous for that reason, because the wise say
that life is little."
　　11 .I see trembling in the world: this generationcomes to craving in
all things,
　　　and the inferior groan before death: those who have not left
craving are in all things.
　　"I see the world trembling": "'I see', I see with the naked eye, I
see with the heavenly eye, I see with the wisdom eye, I see with the
Buddha's eye, I see with all eyes, I see , I watch, I contemplate, I
observe. "In the world": the world of suffering, the world of human
beings, the world of heaven, the world of aggregates, the world of
worlds, the world of beings.
　　"Trembling", throbbing with craving; throbbing with seeing;
throbbing with pollution; throbbing with effort throbbing with the
throbbing of retribution; throbbing with the throbbing of evil deeds;
throbbing with the contamination of greed; throbbing with the anger of
hatred; throbbing with the ignorance of ignorance; throbbing with
slowness being bound; throbbing with seeing; throbbing with being
clinging; throbbing with slackness; throbbing with doubt; unfulfilled by
doubt; throbbing with vexation potential throbbing with strength;
throbbing with gain; throbbing with lack of gain; throbbing with fame;
throbbing with ignorance; throbbing with praise; throbbing with
reprimand throbbing; throbbing with pleasure; throbbing with pain;
throbbing with birth; throbbing with old age; throbbing with sickness;
throbbing with death; throbbing with sorrow and despair throbbing;
throbbing with the pain of falling into hell; throbbing with the pain of
falling into the realm of animals; throbbing with the pain of falling
into the realm of evil spirits; throbbing with the pain of falling into
the human world; throbbing with the pain of entering the womb; throbbing
with the pain originating in the womb; throbbing with the pain
originating in the womb; throbbing with the pain of being dependent on
the already born; throbbing with the suffering of being manipulated
(placed) by others; throbbing with the suffering of one's actions;
throbbing with the suffering of others' actions; throbbing with
suffering; throbbing with the suffering of doing; to become bitterAnd
throbbing; throbbing with the pain of eye disease; throbbing with the
pain of ear disease; Ear disease...mouth disease...dental
disease...cough...wheezing...other nose
disease...fever...oldness...abdominal
disease...coma...diarrhea...abdominal pain ...by cholera...by
leprosy...by tumor...by ringworm...by lung disease...by epilepsy...by
ringworm...by mange...by wind ringworm...by scratching (a leprosy)...
...from dry skin...by blood and gallbladder disease...by diabetes...by
hemorrhoids...by rashes (boils and blisters)...by hemorrhoid fistulas
(ulcers)...by diseases such as gallbladder...by diseases caused by
phlegm... ...diseases caused by wind, etc....diseases caused by [the
three] gatherings...diseases caused by changing seasons...diseases
caused by wrong postures...diseases that come suddenly...rebirth by
karma The disease...by cold...by heat...by hunger...by thirst...by
excrement...by urine...by the pain of contact with horseflies,
mosquitoes, wind, scorching sun, snakes...by the suffering of the dead
mother...by the dead father Suffering... Suffering from dead
brother...... Suffering from dead sister...... Suffering from dead
son...... Suffering from dead daughter...... Suffering from
relatives...... Suffering from wealth...... Suffering from disease......
With the decay of morality... throbbing, fully throbbing, expanding
throbbing, trembling, trembling (strong tremor), great trembling (strong
trembling) with the suffering of the decay of seeing; I see, I see, I
watch, I contemplate, I observe. "Because I see the world trembling.
　　"This generation comes to craving in all beings": "'Generation
(people)' is a synonym for all beings. 'Desire' is craving for form,
craving for sound, craving for smell, craving for taste , touched
craving, Dhamma craving. "Come to craving", come to craving; be followed
by craving; followed by craving; approached by craving; overwhelmed by
craving, conquered The mind is universally grasped. 'In all beings' is
desire being, form being, formless being." For this generation comes
craving in all beings.
　　"The inferior person grumbles before death": "The inferior person,
the inferior person who "has inferior physical karma" is inferior; the
inferior person who "has inferior speech karma" is inferior; The
inferior person; "the inferior to kill" is the inferior person; the
inferior is not given and takes... (the middle abbreviated) inferior to
licentiousness... inferior to lying... inferior to alienation...
inferior to vulgar language... inferior to miscellaneous language...
inferior to greed... ... inferior malicious intentions... inferior wrong
views... inferior conduct... inferior five desires, cover... inferior
thinking (intention)... inferior hope... "having inferior desires" is
inferior person, " inferior, inferior , inferior, inferior, inferior in
intention, trivial" are inferior people. "Grumbling at the mouth of
death (in front)", "at the mouth of death" is at the mouth of the devil;
at the mouth of death; has reached death; has reached Death; approaching
death; reaching the devil; reaching the devil; approaching the devil;
reaching the death; reaching the death; nearing the death, they whine,
cry (a lot), sad, tired, weeping, beating their chests Weeping, come to
confusion." Complaining at the mouth of death (before) for the inferior.
　　"Those who are not separated from craving are in all kinds of
beings": "'Desire' is craving for materiality... (Abbreviated in the
middle) craving for Dharma. In the re-existence of being; in the karma
of desire to be, in the re-existence of form; in the karma of form, in
the re-existence of non-form; in the karma of non-form, in again and
again There is again and again; in repeated places of interest, in
repeated rebirths, in repeated rebirths, in repeated individual births,
not separated from craving, not separated from craving, not abandoned
craving, not excluded from craving , those who have not liberated their
cravings, those who have not given up their cravings, those who have not
given up their cravings." For those who have not been separated from
cravings, there are all kinds of beings.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"I see trembling in the world: this generation comes to craving in
all things,
　　　and the inferior grumble before death: those who have not left
craving are in all things."
　　12. You see ! The throbbing person takes things as his own, like a
fish in a little water that is depleted.
　　　After seeing this, he should also act without self: not be
clinging to what is.
　　"Look! The throbbing takes things as their own": "I cling to", there
are two kinds of ego clinging: the ego clinging to [because of] craving
and the ego clinging [due to] seeing. What is the attachment to the
craving ego? All that is called craving as a limit, as a state, as a
range, as a boundary, as grasped, as one's own: this is mine, this is
mine, so much is mine and this area is mine; my sight, my voice, my
smell, my taste, what I touch, what I touch, my coat, my servants and my
servants, my goats and my sheep, my chickens and my pigs, my elephants,
my ox and my horse, my mules and horses , fields, homesteads, gold, gold
coins, villages, towns, capitals, localities, treasuries, warehouses,
all the earth, which are their own because of craving, all one hundred
and eight kinds of craving thoughts [ AN. 4.199
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.199>], this is the
attachment of the craving ego.
　　What is what I see? There are twenty bases for the bodyview ,
tenbases for wrong views, ten bases for marginal views , such views,
evil views, jungle views, desert views, distorted views, wavering views,
grasping, accepting, clinging, clinging to the view of bondage, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the outsider, the
grasping of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grasping of the reverse
(viparīta), the reverse (vipallāsa) ), the grasp of evil, the grasp of
"what is not real [considered] as real," all that comes to the sixty-two
wicked views, which is the self of the view. "Look! Those who throb take
things as their own": "Those who are regarded as their own throb when
they fear being robbed, they throb when they are robbed, they throb when
they have been robbed; As their own things, they throb when their doubts
and fears change, they throb when they change, and when they have
changed they also throb, strong throb, full throb, enlarged throb,
trembling, trembling, great trembling, so when When throbbing, strong
throbbing, full throbbing, enlarged throbbing, trembling, trembling,
great trembling, please see, please see, please watch, please watch,
please observe.” For you to see! Thrillers take things as their own.
　　"Like a fish in a little water that is depleted": "As a fish in a
little water, little water, depleted, attacked, picked up, eaten by
crows or eagles or cranes, they throb, strong throbbing, full throbbing,
enlarged throbbing, trembling, trembling, great tremor. Likewise, people
(generations) are treated as their own things and they tremble when they
are afraid of being robbed, they also tremble when they are robbed, and
when they have been They throb when they are robbed; they throb when
they are taken as their own, and they throb when they are changed; they
throb when they have changed; Trembling, trembling, great trembling." As
a fish in a little water that is depleted.
　　"After seeing this, you should also do what you don't have": ""This
fault: after seeing, after seeing, after measuring, after judging, after
distinguishing, and after clarifying what I am attached to." After
seeing this. There are two kinds of self-attachment in "should do
without self": [because of] the self-attachment of craving and [because
of] the self-attachment of seeing.... (Abbreviated in the middle) This
is the self-attachment of craving...( This is my attachment to seeing.
After abandoning my attachment to craving, and to cutting off my
attachment to seeing, he [keeps] not taking the eyes as his own; not
taking the ears as his own; not taking the nose as his own. do not take
the tongue as your own; do not take the body as your own; do not take
the mind as your own; forms... sounds... smells... tastes... touches...
dharmas... family...group
(congregation)...residence...profit...reputation...compliment...joy...clothing...food...housing...the patient's needs, medical necessities...the realm of desire...the realm of form...the colorless Realm... Desire... Form... Formless... Thought... No thinking... Non-thinking, non-thinking... One aggregate... Four aggregates... Five aggregates... Past... Future ...now... do not take what he sees, hear, feel, and know as his own, he [keeps] not holding, not clinging, not clinging, he should do, he should live, and he should act , should be turned up, should be guarded, should be kept alive, should be kept alive." After seeing this, one should also do nothing.
　　"Anyone who is not attached to existence": "In existence", in
desire, in form, and in formless. Attachment is called craving, which is
greed, greed... (the middle abbreviated) greed, the root of unwholesome
greed. "Those who are not attached to being": "In being-attachment-not
authored; desire, affection, greed, and liking are not authored, not
produced, not produced, not produced, not produced. ." For those who are
not obsessed with being.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Look! The throbbing take things as their own, like a fish in a
little water that is depleted.
　　　Seeing this, one should also do what is not oneself: not be
clinging to what is."
　　13. In After both sides have subdued desires, he is omniscient and
has no follow-through greed.
　　　Whoever reprimands himself he does not carry out that, and the
wise will not be contaminated by what he sees and hears (Ceylon version).
　　"After controlling desire on both sides": "edge", touch is one side,
contact is the second side; It is the second side; the six inner parts
are one side, and the six outer parts are the second side; "Desire" is
the lust of lust, the lust of lust, the pleasure of lust, the craving of
lust, the love of lust, the grasping of lust, the burning of lust, the
infatuation of lust, the overflow of lust, The yoke (binding) of desire,
the grasping of desire, the cover of desire of desire. "After subduing
desire on both sides": "The desire on both sides should be subdued, it
should be expelled, it should be abandoned, it should be driven away, it
should be brought to an end, and it should be brought to non-existence."
In order to subdue desire on both sides.
　　"All-knowing touch and no craving": "'touch', eye-contact,
ear-contact, nose-contact, tongue-contact, body-contact, mind-contact,
name-contact, paired-contact [ DN
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=15>. touch, touch that
can be felt, touch that can be felt without suffering or pleasure, good
touch, unwholesome touch, non-remembering touch, sensual touch,
form-form touch, formless form-touch, empty touch , non-contact,
unwilling contact, mundane contact, supramundane contact, past contact,
future contact, present contact, any state of contact like this,
contact, full contact, and being touched, this is called contact
　　. After knowing the touch", there are three kinds of all-knowing and
all-knowing: knowing, measuring, and giving up. What is knowing and
knowing? This is nose-contact, this is tongue-contact, this is
body-contact, this is mind-contact, this is name-contact, this is
opposite-contact, this is pleasant-feeling-contact, this is
suffering-feeling-contact, this is The touch that can be felt, neither
suffering nor pleasant, this is wholesome touch, this is unwholesome
touch, this is unremembered touch, this is sensual touch, this is form
touch, this is formless touch, This is emptiness, this is contactless,
this is unwilling, this is worldly, this is supramundane, this is past,
this is future, this is present.” He knows, sees, this is Knowing and
omniscient.
　　What is the measure of omniscience? After knowing this, touch him to
make it measure impermanence, suffering, disease, tumor, arrow,
calamity, disease, and the other side., corrupt, calamity, calamity,
terror, calamity, moving, perishable, weak, without shelter, without
refuge, without refuge, abandoned, false, Empty, non- self, faults,
changing laws, unreal, unfortunate roots, killers, non-existent,
leaking, promising, magic food (bait), birth, aging, sickness, death,
sorrow Sorrows, sorrows, despair, and pollution, he made them measure
up, annihilation, pleasure, trouble, and renunciation. This is the
measure of omniscience.
　　What is renunciation of omniscience? After this measure, the desire
for contact, craving for others, abandoning, driving away, ending, and
bringing it to non-existence. This was said by the Blessed One:
"Bhikkhus! All desire and craving concerning touch, you must give up,
and in this way the touch will be given up, the root will be cut off,
[like] a palm treewith its root cut off, and it will become
non-existent, something that will not be born in the future. [ SN.22.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.25>]' This is
renunciation of omniscience. "Usual knowing and touching after", with
these three kinds of omniscient and omniscient touching. "Those who do
not follow greed", greed is called craving, that is greed, greed...
(Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of greed is unwholesome.
Whoever for him this craving is abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
quenched, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called a
non-craving person, he is not craving in form; in sound he is not
craving not greedy for smell; not greedy for smell; not greedy for
taste; not greedy for touch; home...in community...in abode...in gain
...in fame...in praise...in pleasure...in clothes...in food...in
accommodation...in the sick and in the necessities of medicine; in the
world of desires ...in the realm of form...in the realm of
formlessness...in desire...in form...in formlessness...in thought...in
non-thought...in non-ideal Thinking is over... one aggregate... over the
four aggregates... over the five aggregates... over the past... in the
future... over the present... in what you see, hear, feel, and can The
dharmas that are known are not covetous, not bound, not obsessed,
sinless, free from covetousness, free from covetousness, renounced
covetousness, freed from covetousness, freed from covetousness, Those
who have given up greed, those who have given up greed, those who have
given up greed, those who have given up greed, those who have given up
greed, those who have eliminated greed, those who have been liberated
from greed, those who have given up greed, those who have given up
greed, those who have not The thirsty, the quenched, the cool, the
happy, and the onewho lives as Brahman. "It is the omniscient and the
greedy.
　　"Whoever rebukes himself he does not do that": "'Everything' is
everything. 'Rebuke himself' rebukes himself for two reasons: what is
done and what is not done. What is done and what is not done He
reprimanded himself for what he did? "What I did was evil, but what I
did not do was good." He reprimanded himself; "What I did was evil, not
good by me." himself; "Will be done by me, but not done by me." He
reprimanded himself; "killed by me, and abstain from killing by not done
by me." He reprimanded himself; "By me Take what is not given, and
abstain from what is not given, and take what is not done by me.” He
reprimanded himself; , abstain from lying if not made by me.” He
reprimanded himself; “Abstain from divisive speech if not made by me.”
He rebuked himself; abstain from foul language.” He rebuked himself;
“Abstain from obscenity for those who were made by me, and abstain from
profanity for those who were not made by me.” He rebuked himself; He
rebuked himself; "What I have done is malicious, and what I have not
done is not malicious." He rebuked himself; "The wrong view done by me,
the right view not done by me." He rebukes himself for what has not been
done. Or, 'I am not a full-.' He rebukes himself, 'I am not a gatekeeper
on the roots. ' he rebuked himself, 'I am not one who knows the right
amount of food. ' he reprimanded himself, 'I am not a sobriety
specialist. ' he rebuked himself, 'I am not one who is mindful and wise.
' he reprimanded himself, 'the four mindfulness-absences have not been
practised by me. ' He reprimanded himself, 'I have not practiced the
Four Righteous Diligence. ' He reprimanded himself, 'The four divine
feet have not been practiced by me. ' he rebuked himself, 'the five
sense organs have not been practiced by me. ' he rebuked himself, 'the
five powers have not been practiced by me. ' he rebuked himself, 'The
seven factors of enlightenment have not been practised by me. ' He
rebuked himself, 'The Eightfold Path has not been practiced by me. ' he
rebuked himself, 'suffering is not known to me. ' he reprimanded
himself, 'I have not given up the set. ' he rebuked himself, 'the Tao
has not been practiced by me. ' he reprimanded himself, 'I have not
testified against him. ’ He reprimands himself, so he reprimands himself
for what has been done and what has not been done, so he reprimands
himself for the karma (behavior) that he does not execute, does not
produce, does not produce, does not produce, and does not produce. ' For
whoever rebukes himself he does not do that. "The wise are not defiled
by what they see and hear": "'Adhesion', there are two kinds of
attachment: [due to] attachment to craving and [due to] attachment to
seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is craving Clinging...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the clinging of seeing. "The wise"
are the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise,
after the wise and wise give up the clinging of craving , after breaking
off the attachment of thoughts and views, there is no contamination in
what you see; no contamination in what you smell; no contamination in
what you feel; no contamination, no strong contamination, and no close
contamination (no pollution) in what you perceive. Contaminated, no
longer strongly contaminated, no longer closely contaminated.
Disengaged, disengaged, liberated, freed from bondage, he dwells with a
mind free from limitations." For the wise one is not contaminated by
what he sees and hears.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"After subduing desires on both sides, he is omniscient and has no
cravings.
　　　Whoever rebukes himself he does not do that, and the wise are not
defiled by what he sees and hears (Ceylon Version)."
　　14. After omniscient thinking, he can overcome the turbulent more
and more, the Muni will not be polluted in his possessions,
　　　the practitioners who have removed the thorns and arrows, and do
not let go, do not hope for this world and others.
　　"Thinking can be overcome after knowing everything": "'Thinking',
there are desires, malicious thoughts, and harmful thoughts, detachment
from desire, harmless thought, harmless thought, color, sound, smell,
taste, touch, mind, any state of thinking, cognition, and recognition
like this is called thinking . "After all-knowing and thinking", there
are three kinds of all-knowing: knowing all-knowing, estimating
all-knowing, and discarding all-knowing.
　　What is all-knowing? Knowing thoughts: "This is desire, this is
malicious, this is harmful, this is detachment, this is harmless, this
is harmless, this is color, this is sound, this is smell Thinking, this
is taste thinking, this is tactile thinking, this is dharma thinking. '
He knows and sees, this is all knowledge.
　　What is Measured Omniscience? "After this is known, I want him to
make it measure impermanence, suffering, sickness, tumor, arrow,
calamity, disease, the other side, corruption, calamity, calamity,
terror, calamity. , mobile, perishable... (middle omitted) He makes it
measure as gathering, extinction, pleasure, trouble, and renunciation. '
This is the measure of omniscience.
　　What is renunciation of omniscience? After such a measure, the
desire for thinking, greed for others, abandon, drive away, [make an
end,] bring it to non-existence. For this was said by the Blessed One:
"Bhikkhus! Whatever desires and greed pertain to thought, you must give
up. In this way, that presumably will be discarded, the root will be cut
off, [such as] a palm tree whose root has been cut off, and it will
become non-existence, something that will not be born in the future. 』[
SN.22.25 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.25>] This is
renunciation of omniscience. "After all-knowing and thinking", with
these three kinds of all-knowing and all-knowing thinking. "Being able
to overcome the storm", the storm of desire, the storm of some, the
storm of seeing, and the storm of ignorance, he can overcome, surpass,
pass, overcome, and overcome. "In order to be able to overcome the storm
after knowing everything.
　　"The Muni is not polluted in the possessions": "'The possessions',
there are two kinds of possessions: the possessions [because] of craving
and the possessions [because] of seeing... (Omitted) This is craving The
possessions... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the possession of
seeing. "Muni", "Muni iscalled wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the law, right view, possessing that wisdom. Muni, reaching Muni." There
are three kinds of muni behaviors (perfect virtues): body muni behavior,
speech muni behavior, and mind muni behavior.
　　What is the body muni line? The renunciation of the three evil deeds
of the body is the practice of the body muni; the three kinds of good
deeds of the body are the practice of the body muni; the wisdom in the
object of the body is the practice of the body muni; the omniscience of
the body is the practice of the body muni; the practice with omniscience
The Tao of the body is the practice of the body muni; the renunciation
of the desire and greed of the body is the practice of the body muni;
the fourth jhāna of the cessation of the body practice [breathing and
breathing] is the practice of the body muni, and this is the practice of
the body muni.
　　What is Yumuni Line? The renunciation of the four evil deeds of
speech is the deed of speech muni; the four kinds of good deeds of
speech are deeds of speech muni; the wisdom in the object of speech is
deed of speech muni; the omniscience of speech is deed of speech muni;
The way to go together is the practice of Yumuni; the abandonment of
desire and greed for speech is the practice of Yumuni; the second jhana
of the cessation of the practice of speech is the practice of Yumuni,
this is the practice of Yumuni .
　　What is Yimuni Line? The renunciation of the three kinds of
intentional and evil deeds is the intentional action; the three kinds of
good intentions are the intentional muni action; the wisdom in the
mental object is the intentional muni action; the omniscience of the
mind is the intentional muni action; The Tao is mind-muni behavior; the
renunciation of lust and greed about the mind is mind-muni behavior; the
cessation of mind-forms is the mind-muni behavior.
　　"The body Muni, the speech Muni, and the mind Muni have no
omissions, and the
　　　Muni is the one who has complete conduct. They say that he is the
one who abandons everything.
　　　Body Muni, Speech Muni, and Mind Muni are free from afflictions.
　　　Muni is a Muni who has complete conduct. They say that he is one
who has been purged of evil. [ It.67
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=67>]'
　　The six kinds of muni have these three kinds of muni practices:
"Muni at home, muni without house, muni with learning, muni without
learning, muni without learning, muni in pratyeka, muni [in] muni Ni. 』
Which are the Munis at home? Those lay people who have seen the
footprints and have understood the teachings are lay munis. Which are
homeless munis? Those monks who have seen their footprints and have
understood the teachings are homeless Munis. The seven types of Munis
with learning are the Munis with learning, the Arahants are Munis
without learning, the pratyekabuddhas are the Munis with learning, and
the Munis [in the middle] are calledTathagatas and Arhats ., Whoever is
enlightened.
　　"Not with Muna (silence) as the Muni, the ignorant and ignorant of
　　　all shapes and forms, after lifting the scales, they will become
wise and wise after taking the top one.
　　　Avoid all evils, that Muni becomes a Muni because of that, and
　　　anyone who understands the inner and outer aggregates in the world
is called a Muni because of that.
　　　After knowing the unwholesome and good Dharma, both inside and
outside of the world, after
　　　being offered (respected) by gods and people, after transcending
the net, he is a Muni. "
　　Adhesion", there are two kinds of clinging: [due to] the clinging of
craving and [due to] the clinging of seeing... (Abbreviated in the
middle) This is the clinging of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle)
This is the clinging of seeing on. After Munisha has cut off the
attachment of craving and craving, and has cut off the attachment of
thoughts and views, he is no longer tainted, not strongly attached, or
tightly attached to his possessions. Released, departed, liberated,
freed from bondage, he abides with a mind free from limitations. "To
keep Muni from being polluted in his possessions.
　　"Those who have pulled out the thorn arrows and do not let go":
"'thorn arrows', "there are seven kinds of thorn arrows: greedy thorn
arrows, hate thorn arrows, stupid thorn arrows, slow thorn arrows, see
thorn arrows, worry thorn arrows, Doubtful thorns. Whoever to him these
thorns are discarded, cut off, calmed, ceased, unable to arise, burned
by the fire of wisdom, he is called the one who has plucked the thorns,
who has drawn the thorns Those who have pulled out the thorns, those who
have removed the thorns, those who have removed the thorns, those who
have completely removed the thorns, those who have given up the thorns,
those who have eliminated the thorns, those who have released the
thorns, those who have abandoned the thorns Those who pierce the arrow,
those who have given up the thought of piercing the arrow, those who are
not hungry, those who have cooled down, those who have become cool,
those who feel happiness, and who live with themselves as Brahman who
have already been born.” This is the one who has removed the piercing
arrow.
　　"Walker", when walking, staying, moving, turning, guarding, making
existence, making existence. "The (person) who does not let loose" is a
respectful author, a constant author, a non-stop author, one who is not
in the habit of being attached, one who does not neglect his will, and
one who does not neglect responsibility in good Dharma; Can the
completed aggregate of precepts, or the aggregate of completed precepts,
be funded everywhere with wisdom? 'Where he is willful, diligent,
courageous, striving, undaunted, mindful, wise, zealous, diligent,
established, practiced, not slack in good things; 'How can I complete
the unfinished aggregates of concentration, or Can the completed
contemplation be financed everywhere with wisdom? '... (abbreviated in
the middle) in the good Dharma [do not let go]; how can I complete the
unfinished aggregate of wisdom...the aggregate of liberationknowledge
and view of liberation , or the completed knowledge of liberation Can
see Yun being able to fund everywhere with wisdom? 'Where there is
desire, diligence, valour, effort, undying, mindfulness, clear
understanding, zeal, diligence, establishment, practice, no slack in
good Dharma; Or can you let go of the unresolved pollution, or you can
practice the unpracticed path, or you can testify to the untested
cessation? 'Wherever he is willing, diligent, courageous, striving,
undaunted, mindful, wise, zealous, diligent, established, practiced, not
slack in good Dharma. ” is a walker who has pulled out the thorn arrow
and never let it go.
　　"I don't want this world and others": "He doesn't want this world:
his own state, he doesn't want other worlds: the state of others. He
doesn't want this world: his own form, feeling, thinking, formation,
consciousness, no I wish for other worlds: other people's form, feeling,
thought, formation, and consciousness. I don't wish for this world: the
six inner worlds, and I don't wish for other worlds: the six outer
worlds. I don't wish for this world: the human world, and I don't wish
for other World: Heaven's world. Don't want this world: Desire world,
Don't want other worlds: Form world, Formless world. Don't want this
world: Desire world, Form world, Don't want other worlds: Formless
world. Interesting again , or rebirth, or rebirth, or existence
(existence), or reincarnation, or reincarnation He does not wish, does
not want, does not receive, does not desire, does not desire, does not
ask for.” For not wanting this world and others.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"By knowing all thoughts and thinking, the more and more turbulent,
the Muni will not be polluted.
　　　The one who has pulled out the thorn and arrow and never let it
go, does not wish for this world or anything else. "
　　Explanation of the eight-group scriptures of the cave, second
[completed].


Notes:
　1. Those who desire (expect/want) are stuck in the cave (body) far away.
　2. Not liberated from others ⇒ The Tathagata is only a guide ( MA.144
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MA/dm.php?keyword=144>).
　3. Life is short, not united by two minds to live, like lightning in
the sky, they arise and dissipate.
　4. The throbbing take things as their own, like a fish in a little
water that is depleted, and the wise are not tainted by what he sees and
smells.
