
Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
3. Explanation of the Disgusting Eighty-One Sutra

Second , the disgusting Eighty-One Sutra Explanation will say:

15. Some do say it with malice, others (Thai version) do say it with
a true heart,

　have The controversy of lifeMuni does not reach, so Muni is not
desolatewherever he is .

"Some do speak with malicious intent": "Those heresies speak with
malice, with hostility, with opposition, with attack, with
behind-the-scenes, with harm, and with The intention of harming behind
the scenes is false, insulting the World Honored One and the Sangha of
Bhikkhus." Some of them did say with malicious intentions.

"Others do speak with true hearts": "Whoever believes, trusts,
believes and understands to those outsiders, who have true thoughts with
true hearts, who think truths with truths, and who have truths with
truths Those who think as they really are, those who think with a true
mind and who have true thoughts, those who think with a mind that is not
upside down and who do not think upside down speak falsely, insulting
the World Honored One and the Bhikkhu Sangha." For others, they did
speak with a true mind.

"The dispute that has been born Muni does not arrive": "'The dispute
has arisen, has arisen, has arisen, has arisen, has arisen: further
talk, insults, reprimands, falsehoods against the Blessed One and the
Bhikkhu Sangha ” is a dispute that has already occurred. “Muni does not
reach”: “Muni”, MuniKnown as wisdom, it is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding, non-delusion, Dharma selection, and right view.
Possessing that wisdom is Muni, reaching Muna. ... (Abbreviated in the
middle) After transcending and dyeing the net, he is Muni. Whoever
arrives at the dispute he arrives for two reasons: the author arrives at
[the] dispute in the state of the author, or, when said, reprimanded, he
is angry, repulsive, stubborn (resistance), showing anger, hatred,
dissatisfaction [ , said]: "I am not the author. ' Whoever arrives at
the dispute he arrives for these two reasons. Muni does not reach the
controversy for two reasons: Muni is not the author, he does not reach
[the] controversy in the state of the author, or, when he is said or
reprimanded, he does not get angry, does not reject, does not stubborn
(resist), does not Showing anger, hatred, dissatisfaction [, saying]: "I
am not the author. 』 Muni has two reasons for not reaching, not
reaching, not holding, not clinging, not clinging to [the] controversy.
"Because of the controversies that have been born, Muni does not arrive.

"Therefore, no matter where Muni is, there is no desolation":
"'Therefore', therefore, with that reason, that cause, that
predestination, that cause, for Muni, there is no heart to attack, and
the state of desolation has been born, there is no There are five kinds
of desolation of the mind [ MN.16
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=16>], there are no three
kinds of desolation [ SN.45.166
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.166>]: the desolation
of greed, the desolation of hatred, the desolation of delusion he does
not exist, does not exist, is not known, is not discovered, has been
abandoned, Disconnected, calmed down, stoked, unable to arise, burned by
the fire of wisdom. 'Wherever', wherever, wherever, wherever, inside or
out or inside and out." For this reason Muni no matter where There is no
desolation anywhere.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Some do say it with malice, and others (Thai version) do say it
with truth, that

　the controversy that has been born Muni does not reach, so Muni is
not desolate wherever it is."

16 . How can I see beyond? Guided by desire, fixed by [personal]
hobbies, and

　doing what he has accomplished, he will indeed say it as he knows it.

"How can one's own views be transcended?": "Those heretics who kill
Sundari female marchers and declare the ascetic Sakyamuni disreputable,
[thinking:] 'In this way, we will take back this benefit, fame, respect,
Respect.” Those who see this way, like this way, love this way, advocate
this way, intention people this way, and intention people this way, they
cannot go through their own views, their own liking, their own hobbies,
their own opinions, their own intentions , their own intentions, at that
time, the disrepute is returned to themselves." How can such a view of
oneself be overcome? Or, "'The world is eternal, this is the truth, and
everything else is empty.' Whoever said this, his own views, his own
likes, his own preferences, his own opinions, his own intentions , How
can one's own intentions transcend, traverse, transcend, and overcome?
What is the reason? His vision has been completed, held, grasped,
grasped, attached, and grasped. , I have believed and understood.” This
is also how my own views can be transcended? "The world is very
permanent... (Abbreviated in the middle) The worldis bounded... The
world is boundless... Life is the body... Life is one body is another...
The Tathagata exists after death... The Tathagata does not exist after
death... The Tathagata exists and does not existafter death... The
Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after death, this is the
real thing, and everything else is empty. 』Whoever says this, how can
his own views, his own likes, his own hobbies, his own ideas, his own
intentions, and his own intentions be able to transcend, traverse,
transcend, and overcome? What is the reason for that? His view is like
that completed, held, grasped, grasped, clinging to, grasped, believed
and understood. "How can this also be my own view to transcend?

"Guided by desires, fixed by [person's] hobbies": "'Guided by
desires', "He is carried away, carried away, carried, and carried by his
own views, his own likes, his own preferences, and his own opinions,
like being carried away by Elephant cart or horse-drawn cart,
two-wheeled cart, ox cart, goat cart, ram cart, camel cart, donkey and
horse cart to carry, take away, carry, carry. In the same way, he is
driven by his own views, his own likes, his own hobbies, his own
opinions Carrying away, taking away, carrying, carrying." To be led by
desire. "Fixed by [personal] hobbies", he is fixed, stopped, stuck,
entered, dyed, by his own views, his own preferences, his own opinions.
Turn your heart toward (win solution)." To be guided by desire and fixed
by [personal] hobbies.

"Doing what you have done": "Doing what you have done; Doing what is
perfect; Doing what is perfect; Doing the first, the best, the best, the
best, the best, the best: [Thinking:] "This master is all wise men." Do
what you have done; do what is perfect; do what is perfect; do what is
first, what is best, what is best, what is best, what is best, what is
best. [Thinking:] "This Dharma is taught well... (Abbreviated in the
middle) This group is a good performer... This view is good... This path
is well established... This Dao is renunciation." Execution is done by
oneself; execution Perfect; executed perfectly; executed the first, the
best, the best, the highest, the highest, the highest, he makes it,
makes it, makes it arise, makes it arise." For execution completed by
himself.

"Indeed he speaks as he knows": "He speaks, talks, talks, explains,
speaks as he knows, 'The world is permanent, this is what is real,
everything else is empty.' Those who know say, talk about, talk about,
explain, and say, "The world is very permanent... (Abbreviated in the
middle) The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after death,
this is the real thing, and the rest are empty." He would be like this.
He who knows speaks, talks, talks, explains, speaks." For sure he will
speak as he knows.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"How can one's own view transcend? He who is guided by desire, fixed
by [personal] inclinations, and who

　executes what he has accomplished, surely he will speak as he knows."

17. The precepts and prohibitions of mortals themselves are told to
others without being questioned, and

　those who are skillful say it is not the holy law: whoever speaks
of himself.

"Everyone's own precepts and prohibitions": "'Everyone' is like
what, such as effort, such as arrangement, such as kind, every place
that has been reached, every Kshatriya who has the Dharma, or Brahman,
or Vaisha, or chief Dhara, or a lay person, or a monk, or a god, or a
person. "Precepts and prohibitions", there are precepts and
prohibitions, there are prohibitions [but] non-precepts. What are
precepts and prohibitions? Here, the monks are the ones who keep the
precepts, Abiding and being protected by the self-control of Paratimukha
, possessingthe right conduct and conduct , seeing terrible things in
all the petty sins, learning after receiving and upholding in various
learning areas, restraining, self-controlling, and not transgressing
there, this is the precept. Those who obey it are prohibitions. Taking
self-righteousness as a precept; obedience to righteousness is a
prohibition, which is called precept and prohibition. What is
prohibition [and] non-precepts? Sweeping clothes, but three clothes,
begging for food in order, not eating after eating, always sitting [not
lying], and staying anywhere, this is called prohibition [but]
non-precept. The observance of vitality is also called prohibition [And]
non-precepts: "I would rather have only skin, tendons, and bones left;
if the flesh and blood of the body are dried up, as long as one's
perseverance, human strength, human vitality, and human effort should be
achieved but not achieved, there will be no The cessation of vitality. [
SN.12.22 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.22>]' He is
devoted and diligent, and like this is the observance of vitality, which
is called prohibition [and] not precept.
"I shall neither eat nor
drink, nor go out of my dwelling,
　nor shall I use Falling down
(recumbent): when the arrow of craving has not been removed.” [Thag.223]

His wholehearted, diligent observance of such vitality is also
called prohibition [rather] not precept. “As long as I After the heart
is not unattached, <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.22>


Drainis freed, I will not break this cross-legged! [ MN.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=32>]' He was devoted and
diligent, and the observance of such vigour is also called prohibition
[rather] than precepts. "As long as my mind doesn't cling to andis freed
from the straits, I won't get up from this seat...I won't walk down from
the scriptures...I won't go out from my residence...I won't get out of a
half-roofed house. Go out...I won't go out from the tall building...I
won't go out from the bungalow...I won't go out from the cave...I won't
go out from the cave...I won't go out from the hut...I will Not going
out of the heavy pavilion...I will not go out from the watchtower...I
will not go out from the dome...I will not go out from the shack...I
will not go out from the lecture hall...I will not go out from the
tent... ...I will not go out under the tree. ' His whole-hearted,
diligent observance of such vigour is also called prohibition [rather
than] precepts. "Just before this noon I shall attain, fully attain,
attain, touch, bear witness to the Dhamma. ' His whole-hearted, diligent
observance of such vigour is also called prohibition [rather than]
precepts. "Just this noon...evening...before eating...after
eating...before...midnight...after night...at the time of death...at the
time of the white moon...in the rainy season...in the winter... ...in
summer time...in youth...in middle age...in old age I shall attain,
fully attain, attain, touch, bear witness to the Dhamma. ' His
whole-hearted, diligent observance of such vigour is also called
prohibition [rather than] precepts. "Human" refers to sentient beings,
human beings, student Brahmins, people, individuals, life, those who are
born, sentient beings, those who are born in Indra, those who are born
of Manu. "It is the precepts and prohibitions of mortals themselves.

"To others without being questioned": "'To others', to other
Kshatriyas, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods,
people. 'Not to be questioned' , not questioned; not questioned; not
begged; not asked; not made clear. "Speaking", saying one's precepts, or
restraint, or restraint and restraint: I am "one who is full of
precepts," or " Those who have the ability to restraint, or "the person
who has the precepts and restraints", or by birth, or by surname, or by
a good family son, or by a face as beautiful as a lotus flower, or by
property, or by research (acquisition), or by occupation, Either by
craftsmanship, or by knowledge (academic), or by hearing, or by
eloquence, or by something, or "a monk from a noble family", or "a monk
from a big family", or "a monk from a great family" A monk from a
wealthy family”, or “a monk from a wealthy family”, or “a person who is
a well-known person and a person who is a monk at home and abroad”, or
“a person who is in clothing, food, shelter, necessities for the sick,
and medical necessities.” A gainer, or a scribe, or a lawyer (a lawyer),
or a preacher, or a man who lives in the forest, or a beggar, or a man
who wears dung and sweeps clothes, or "A person with three robes", or "a
person who begs for food in order", or "a person who does not eat after
eating", or "a person who always sits [not lying down]", or "a person
who lives anywhere", or "a person who has attained the first jhana", Or
"the one who attains the second jhāna", or "the one who attains the
third jhāna", or "the one who attains the fourth jhāna", or "the one who
waits for the boundless space", or "the one who waits for the boundless
consciousness" The one who obtains,” or “the one who waits for nothing,”
or “the one who waits for anything without thinking,” he says, talks,
talks, explains, speaks.” For not being asked Say it to others.

"Skillful ones say that is not the holy Dharma": "'Skillful ones',
those who are skillful in the accumulation, skillful in the world,
skillful in handling, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in
mindfulness, skillful in diligence We, those skilled in the divine feet,
those skilled in the roots, those skilled in the power, those skilled in
the enlightenment factor, those skilled in the path, those skilled in
the fruit, those skilled in nirvana, these skillful ones say: 'This is
the non-noble one's Dharma, this is not the Dharma of the saints, this
is the Dharma of the foolish, this is not the Dharma of the wise, this
is the Dharma of the unvirtuous, this is not the Dharma of the
virtuous.” Speak." For the skillful ones say that is not the Dhamma.

"Whoever speaks of himself": "He who speaks himself is called me.
'Whoever speaks himself' speaks of himself: I am 'one who is virtuous',
or 'one who is restrained', or 'one who is disciplined and restrained'
Possessed”, or by birth, or by surname, or by good family son, or by
beauty as a lotus flower, or by property, or by research (acquisition),
or by profession, or by skill, or by knowledge ( Academics), or by
hearing, or by eloquence, or by something, or "a monk from a noble
family", or "a monk from a large family", or "a monk from a wealthy
family", or "a monk from a wealthy family" Wealthy monks or monks, or
"people who are both at home and monks are well-known and well-known",
or "one who gains in clothing, food, shelter, necessities for the sick,
and necessities of medicine", or "a teacher of scriptures", Or "lawyer
(law-holder)", or "talker", or "living in the forest", or "constant
begging", or "wearing dung and sweeping clothes", or "but
three-clothed", or "orderly" A beggar, or a person who does not eat
after eating, or a person who always sits [not lying down], or a person
who lives anywhere, or a person who has attained the first jhāna, or a
person who has attained the second jhāna, Or "the one who obtains the
third jhāna", or "the one who obtains the fourth jhāna", or "the one who
waits for the boundless space", or "the one who waits for the boundless
consciousness", {"Abandoning nothingness" After that, those who have
been completed, and those who have ceased to exist, he is a monk.”?} Or
“the one who waits for the place of nothingness”, or “the one who waits
for the place of non-ideal and non-ideal” he said, Talk, talk, explain,
talk." For everyone who speaks of himself.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Everyone's own precepts and prohibitions are told to others without
being questioned, and the

　skillful say that it is not the Holy Dharma: everyone speaks of
himself."

18. Silent monk, completely cool The state person does not boast on
the precepts that "I am like this", the

　skillful people say that it is the holy Dharma, and for him the
prosperity does not exist anywhere in the world.

"Silent monks, those who are in a state of complete cooling":
"Silent", "The quelled state of greed is quiet; the quelled state of
hatred is quiet; the quelled state of delusion is quiet; the angered ...
(omitted in the middle) ) resentful... venomous... bossy... jealous...
stingy... deceitful... cunning... stubborn... passionate... slow...
extremely slow... sloppy all that is... let go... all that is
polluted... all that is evil... all that is troubled... all that is
hot... all that is hot and annoyed... all that is unwholesome and
contrived has been quiet, calmed, calmed down The state, the
extinguished state, the cooled state, the departed state, the rested
state is still, still, calmed, cooled, rested.” is still. "Bhikkhu", the
state of destruction of the seven dharmas is a bhikkhu: the destruction
of body view, the destruction of doubt, the destruction of precepts and
prohibitions, the destruction of greed, the destruction of hatred, the
destruction of delusion, the destruction of laziness, the destruction of
those evil and unwholesome dharmas : Go along with the pollution, the
reoccurrence, the fear, the bitter retribution, and the life, old age
and death in the future.

[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 519 verses]

"By the path that one has practiced (working), one has reached
parinibbana, surpassed those who doubt, and after abandoning

　non-being and being, those who have completed it, Whoever has been
extinguished is a monk."

"Silent monk, one who is in a state of complete cooling": "One who
makes the quenched state of greed a state of complete cooling; Those who
are in a state of being extinguished are those who are in a state of
complete cooling; those who are angry... (abbreviated in the middle)
those who are resentful... those who hide evil... those who are
domineering... those who are jealous... those who are stingy... those
who are deceitful... those who are cunning... stubborn
The...passionate...slow...the very slow...the sluggish...the loose...all
the pollution...all the evil...all the trouble...all the burning...all
the heat The . . . make the extinguished state of all unwholesome deeds
into the state of complete cooling." It is the silent monk, the state of
complete cooling.

"Not boasting 'I am like this' in the precepts": "'I am like this',
the continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the
perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of
words; this is the The order is, "I am like this." "I am not boasting in
the precepts." Here, a certain class of people is a boaster, a show-off,
and he is a boaster, a show-off: I am "a person who is full of
precepts," or "one who is full of restraint." ”, or “those who possess
the precepts and restraints”, or “those who have attained by birth, by
surname, by a good family son, by a face as beautiful as a lotus flower…
(abbreviated in the middle), or by a person who has attained either by
thinking or not, etc.” He boasted and showed off. Like this he does not
boast, he does not show off. Separated from boasting, he has abstained,
he has abstained, he has renounced, he has left, he has been freed, he
has been freed from bondage, and he abides with a mind free from
limitations." Ring does not boast "I am like this".

"Skillful ones say that is the holy Dharma": "'Skillful ones', those
who are skillful in accumulation, skillful in world, skillful in
processing, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in mindfulness,
skillful in diligence We, the skillful in spirit and feet, skillful in
roots, skillful in power, skillful in enlightenment, skillful in path,
skillful in fruition, skillful in nirvana, these skillful ones say:
"This is the skill of the noble ones. Dharma, this is not the Dharma of
the non-sage, this is the Dharma of the wise, this is not the Dharma of
the foolish, this is the Dharma of the virtuous, and this is not the
Dharma of the non-virtuous.” They say, tell, tell, explain. , say so."
For the skillful ones say that it is the Dharma.

"For him, prosperity does not exist anywhere in the world": "'for
him,' for an arahant; for one whose taints have been exhausted. For
'increase,' there are seven prosperity: greed Enlightenment, hatred,
ignorance, slowness, vision, pollution, karma, for those people these
things don't exist, they don't exist, they don't exist, they don't get
known, they don't get discovered. To be abandoned, to be cut off, to be
calmed down, to be stopped, not to arise, to be burnt by the fire of
wisdom. "Wherever", wherever, wherever, wherever, inside or out or
inside. In the world of sufferingthe world of human beings, in the world
of devas, in the world of khandhas, in the world of worlds, and in the
world of loci.” For him, the prosperity does not exist anywhere in the
world.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"The silent monk, the one who is in a state of complete cooling,
does not boast in the precepts 'I am like this'. The

　skillful ones say that is the holy Dharma, for whom prosperity
does not exist anywhere in the world."

19 .Everything that is fixed (overlooked)for him and that has a
purpose, is valued [and] exists impure, and
　whoever sees benefits
in himself, he is a dependant due to shaking the stillness.


"Anything that is determined to him (overlooked), the dharmas that
are useful": "There are two kinds of "determination": the determination
[caused by] craving and the determination [caused] view... ...(Middle
abbreviation) This is the determination of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the determination of seeing. "Doing", "doing,
making, and making co-habitation" are actions. In addition, "What is
impermanent, what isdone , what is born of conditions, is the dharmaof
dissipating, the dharmaof fading away , the dharmaof cessation " is also
conditioned. It is called the sixty-two evilviews ." These are all the
dharmas that are determined (overlooked) for him.

"To be valued [and] there are impure ones": "[To be valued], there
are two kinds of value: the value of [due to] craving and the value of
[due to] seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the value of
craving... (Middle omitted) This is the value of view. "For him, the
value of craving has not been abandoned, the value of seeing has not
been abandoned, and the value of craving has not been abandoned, and the
value of seeing has not been abandoned. In the state of renunciation, he
puts craving or seeing in front and behind, craving as a banner, craving
as a banner, craving as an increase, seeing as a banner, seeing as a
banner, seeing as an increase, being Craving or seeing and following.”
To be valued. “Existing,” being, being known, being, being discovered.
“Impurified,” impure, impure, impure, polluted defilements,
defilements.” In order to be valued [and] there is the impure.

"Anyone who sees benefits in himself": "'Anyone + in himself' is
all-in himself. He is called an evil view, and he sees two benefits of
his own view: the benefit of the present life and the benefit of the
next life What is the benefit of seeing? All the masters have the views,
and the disciples also have the views. The disciples respect, respect,
respect, worship, respect the views of the masters, and get clothes,
food, shelter, and the needs of the sick from that cause. The
necessities of medicine and medicine, this is the benefit of seeing.
What is the benefit of seeing in the afterlife? "This seeing is enough
to become the state of a dragon (Dragon world), or the state of a
Garuda, or the state of a Yaksha, or the state of Asura, Either the
state of the Gandharva, or the state of the great king, or the state of
Indra, or the state of Brahma, or the state of the gods, this view
[suffices] belongs to pure, pure, universally pure; emancipation,
liberation, universal detachment, With this see they become pure, become
pure, become universally pure; freed, liberated, universally freed, with
this see I shall become pure, become pure, become universally pure;
freed, To be liberated, to be emancipated from everywhere.” For those
who are looking forward to the future fruit, this is the benefit of
seeing the next life. He sees, sees, watches, contemplates, and observes
these two benefits of his own view.” For those who see benefits in
themselves By.

"He is the one who shakes the stillness": There are three kinds of
stillness: ultimate stillness, that part (that part) stillness, and
worldly stillness. What exactly is silence? Ultimate stillness is called
immortality, nirvana, whatever is the cessation of allactions , whatever
dependson The cessation of thought, the cessation of craving, the
cessation of greed, the cessation of nirvana, this is the ultimate
silence . What is that partial silence? For those who enter the first
jhāna, the lids are quiet; for those who enter the second jhāna, the
meditation is quiet; for those who enter the third jhāna, the joy is
quiet; for those who enter the fourth jhāna To be quieted; to those who
enter the limitless place of emptiness, the thoughts of form, pair of
thoughts, and all kinds of thoughts are quieted; to the one who enters
the limitless place of consciousness, the mind of the boundless sky is
quieted; to those who enter the place of nothingness It is said that the
place where consciousness is boundless wants to be quieted; for those
who have entered the place of non-thinking, non-non-ideal, and waiting
to be reached, there is nowhere to be quieted. This is that part (that
part) of quietness. What is mundane silence? The sixty-two evil views,
[because] the silence of the view is called mundane silence, and
moreover, mundane silence in this sense: with the meaning of "silence".
"He is the Dependent of Shaking Silence": "He is Shaking Silence, Strong
Shaking Silence, Moving Silence, Moving Silence, Fluctuating Silence,
Impact Silence, Constructed Silence, Concentration (Overall) Silence,
Impermanent , what is done, what is born of conditions, is the cessation
of the dharma, the disappearance of the dharma, the fading dharma, the
silent dependant of the cessation of dharma, the dependant, the clinger,
the immersed, the defiler, the one who directs the mind.” For he is By
the one who shakes the silence.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Anything that is determined to him, that has a purpose, is valued
[and] exists impure, and

　whoever sees benefits in himself, he is caused by shaking the
stillness 20.

The attachment to seeing is indeed not easy to overcome: after being
selected in the Dharma, it is firmly grasped,

　so everyone refuses and grasps the Dharma in those attachments.

"The attachment to the view is indeed not easy to overcome": "The
attachment to the view", "The world is permanent, this is the real
thing, and everything else is empty." It is very permanent...
(Abbreviated in the middle) The world is bounded... The world is
boundless... Life is the body... Life is one body is another... The
Tathagata exists after death... The Tathagata does not exist after
death... The Tathagata after death Existence and non-existence... "The
Tathagata is neither existing nor non-existent after death, this is the
real thing, and everything else is empty." Holding and clinging are the
abodes of view. "The attachment to seeing is indeed not easy to
overcome": "The attachment to seeing is indeed not easy to overcome,
difficult to surpass, difficult to escape, difficult to overcome,
difficult to surpass, difficult to overcome." The attachment to seeing
is indeed is not easy to overcome.

"After being chosen in the law, it is held tightly": "'in the law',
in the sixty-two evil views. "After choosing", after deciding, after
judging, after choosing, after checking, after measuring, after judging
, After separation, after clarification. "Being grasped", limited
grasping, partial grasping, top grasping, fixed grasping, accumulating
grasping, accumulating grasping: this is true, truthful, true , factual,
correct, not upside-down, but held, grasped, grasped, grasped, believed
and understood." To be held firmly after being selected in the Dharma.

"Therefore everyone is in those attachments": "'Therefore',
therefore, with that reason, that cause, that condition, that cause.
'Everyone' is a sentient being, a human being, a student Brahmin, a
person, an individual, a life, until birth Those who are sentient
beings, those who are sentient beings, those who arrive at Indra, those
who are born of Manu. "In those attachments," in those attachments of
seeing." Because of this, everyone is in those attachments.

"Rejection and holding method": "'Rejection', he refuses for two
reasons: he refuses with the interruption of others, or he refuses when
it is not achieved. How can he refuse with the interruption of others?"
"Duan": The master is not all wise, the Dharma is not well spoken,
[their] group is not good deeds, seeing is not good, the path is not
established by good, the path is not detached, there is no purity or
purity here , or universally pure; or detached, or liberated, or
universally detached, without them becoming pure, or becoming pure, or
universally pure; or detached, or liberated, or universally detached, is
inferior so that when interrupted he rejects the master, rejects the
teaching of the Dhamma, rejects the group, rejects the meeting, rejects
The path, the refusal of the Dao, this way he refuses with the
interruption of others. What is it that he refuses when it is not
achieved? He refuses when the precept is not achieved, he refuses when
the prohibition is not achieved, and he refuses when the precept and
prohibition are not achieved. , this is when he refuses when it is not
reached. "With the Dharma", he grasps the master, grasps the narration
of the Dharma, grasps the group, grasps the view, grasps the trail,
grasps the Tao, he grasps, adheres to ." is the method of rejection and
holding.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"The attachment to seeing is indeed not easy to overcome: after
being chosen in the Dharma, it is firmly grasped,

　so everyone rejects and grasps the Dharma in those attachments."

21. For the Purifier No matter where in the world, there is really
no such thing. With all kinds of superior preconceived ideas
(overviews), after the purifier abandons

　deceit and arrogance, what will he fall into if he is a
non-attachment?

"For those who are cleansed, no matter where in the world, there is
no such thing as a certain view (overview)": "cleansing", cleansing is
called wisdom, which is wisdom, knowledge, understanding, Simple
selection, investigation, method selection, identification, discernment,
close inspection, wise (erudition), skillful, wise, contemplative,
contemplative, scrutiny, vast (comprehensive), wise, wise, vipassana,
wise, thorn Stick, Wisdom, Wisdom Root, Wisdom Power, Wisdom Sword,
Wisdom Hall, Wisdom Light, Wisdom Light, Wisdom Light, Wisdom Treasure,
No Delusion, Dharma Selection, Right View, for what reason are they
called Wisdom? With that wisdom, the evil deeds of the body are shaken
off, washed away, completely washed away, To be washed away (washed);
words of evil deeds... thoughts of evil deeds are shaken off, washed
away, completely washed away, washed away; greed is shaken off, washed
away, completely washed away, washed away; hatred...( Abbreviation)
Delusion... anger... resentment... hide evil... bossiness is shaken off,
washed away, completely washed away, washed away; jealousy is shaken
off, washed away, completely washed away, washed away; stingy is shaken
off Fall, wash, completely wash, wash away; falsehood be shaken off,
wash, wash away, wash away; cunning be shaken off, wash, wash away, wash
away; stubbornness be shaken off , cleansed, completely cleansed, away
from cleansed; passion...slow...very slow...sorrow...easy to shake off,
cleansed, totally cleansed, from cleansed; all pollution, all evil
deeds, All afflictions, all scorching heat, all vexations, all
unwholesome deeds are shaken off, washed away, completely washed away,
washed away, and for this reason washing is called wisdom.

Or, wrong views are shaken off, washed away, completely washed away,
and washed away by right view; wrong thoughts are shaken off, washed
away, completely washed away, and washed away by right intentions; wrong
words are shaken off, washed away by right speech...( Abridged) Evil
karma is shaken off by right karma... Evil life is shaken off by right
life... Evil energy is shaken off by right effort... Evil thoughts are
shaken off by righteous thoughts... Evil concentration is shaken off by
right concentration, cleansed, completely cleansed, Evil wisdom is
shaken off by right wisdom... Evil liberation is shaken off by right
liberation, cleansed, completely cleansed, and cleansed.

Or all defilements, all evil deeds, all afflictions, all scorching
heat, all vexations, all unwholesome fabrications are shaken off,
cleansed, totally cleansed, and free from cleansing by the Eightfold
Path, which an arahant possesses, possesses, attains, Fully attained,
complete, fully equipped, possessed of these dhammas that can cleanse,
therefore, the Arahant is the one who cleanses, "he shakes off greed,
shakes off evil, shakes off defilement, shakes off heat and affliction."
Cleaner. "Wherever", wherever, wherever, wherever, inside or out or
inside. "In the world", in the world of the world of suffering...
(abbreviated in the middle) in the world.

There are two kinds of "fixed view (overlooked)": the fixation of
[because of] craving and the fixation of [because of] view... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the fixation of craving... (Middle abbreviation)
This is It is the opinion of seeing. "In all kinds of existence", in the
existence of all kinds of karma, in the re-existence of desire; in the
karma of desire, in the re-existence of form; in the karma of form, in
the formless existence In the karma of formless existence, there is
again and again; in the place of interest again and again, in the
rebirth again and again, in the rebirth again and again, in the rebirth
of the individual again and again. "For the purifiers, no matter where
in the world, there is no such thing as a fixed view (overview) in all
kinds of existence": "For the purifiers, no matter where in the world,
there are those built on all kinds of existences. , fixed, contrived,
made to live together, see that he does not exist, does not exist, is
not known, is not discovered, is abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
ceased, cannot arise, is burned by the fire of wisdom . . " For the
cleansing person, no matter where in the world there is really no such
thing as a fixed view (overview) in all kinds of existence.

"The Purifier renounces deceit and hindrance": The act of deceit is
called deceit. Here, after a certain type of people practice evil deeds
with their bodies; after they practice evil deeds with words; He doesn't
want to know me!" Saying "May he not know me!"; physically striving "May
he not know me! [ AN.6.45
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.45>]" All deceitful,
deceitful situations like this, transgression (violation), deceit , to
conceal, to obfuscate, to conceal, to keep secret, to hide (to keep
secret all the time), to conceal, to conceal, to conceal, to conceal, to
conceal, to conceal evil deeds, this is called deception.

"Slow", take one kind of slowness: it is the high or low of the
mind, and two kinds are slow: self-praise is slow, contempt for others
is slow, and three kinds are slow: "I am the winner" is slow, "I am the
winner" is slow, "I am equal" is slow, "I am inferior" is slow, and
there are four kinds of slowness: slowness by gain, slowness by fame,
slowness by praise, and slowness by pleasure , take five as the
slowness: "I do get the desired form." To make it slow, "I do get the
desired sound... (abbreviated) smell... taste... touch." To make it
slow, take six The seeds are slow: the ability of the eyes makes it
slow, the ability of the ear... the ability of the nose... the ability
of the tongue... the ability of the body... the ability of the mind
makes it slow, and the seven kinds are Slowness: slowness, extremely
slowness, slowness and extremely slowness, humbleness, increasing
slowness, I am slowness, evil slowness, there are eight kinds of
slowness: slowness due to gain , lowness due to lack of gain, and
slowness. Fame makes him humble, fame makes him humble, praise makes him
humble, rebuke makes him humble, pleasure makes him humble, pain makes
him humble, and nine are : The winner thinks: "I am the winner" is slow,
the winner thinks: "I am equal" is slow, the winner thinks: "I am the
inferior" is slow, the equal thinks: "I am "I'm the winner" is slow, the
equal thinks: "I am the equal" is the slow, the equal thinks: "I am the
inferior" is the slow, the inferior thinks: "I am the superior" is the
slow, inferior Those who think: "I am equal" are slow, those who are
inferior think: "I am inferior" are slow, and ten kinds are slow: Here,
a certain type of people is born, or by surname, or by good family,
Either by the beauty of the lotus, or by property, or by research
(acquisition), or by industry, or by skill, or by clarity (academic), or
by hearing, or by eloquence, or by something Slowness arises. Anyone who
is slow in mind, thinks, thinks, pays tribute to high, high or low,
flags, holds high, and vanity of mind like this is called slowness. "The
one who purifies abandons deceit and humiliation": "The purifier
abandons, abandons, drives away, makes an end, and makes it come to
non-existence." For the purifier abandon deception and humiliation.

"If he is a non-attachment, what will he fall into?": "'attachment',
there are two kinds of attachment: the attachment of craving and the
attachment of seeing... (Middle abbreviation) This is the attachment of
craving... (Middle abbreviation) This is The attachment to seeing. For
him, the attachment to craving has been abandoned; the attachment to
seeing has been abandoned, and the attachment to craving has been
abandoned, and the attachment to seeing has been abandoned. What kind of
greed, what kind of hatred, what kind of ignorance, what kind of
slowness, what kind of perception, what kind of aversion, what kind of
doubts will the attached person fall into? Falling in, what kind of
defilements will the underlying tendency fall into, becoming a
"defiler", or a "disgusting person", or a "foolish person", or a "bound
person", or a "clinger", or a "come to loose" Those who are chaotic,” or
“come to those who do not agree,” or “come to those who are resolute”?
Those who have been discarded and those who have been created have been
discarded. How will they fall into the place of interest and become
“those who have fallen to hell” , or "those who have fallen into the
realm of animals", or "those who have fallen into the realm of hungry
ghosts", or "people", or "heaven", or "people with color", or "people
without color", or "people with thoughts", or "people without thinking"
'[, or 'Neither a thinker nor a non-thinker']? He has no cause, no
predestination, no factor to fall into this." Since he is a
non-attachment, what will he fall into?

Because of that, the World-Honored One said,

"There is absolutely nothing in the world for the purifying person.
With all kinds of superior determinations (overviews), after the

　purifying person renounces deception and arrogance, he has no
attachment. What will he fall into?"

22. The clinging person has indeed reached the dispute on the
dharmas, how and by what means can one say that there is no clinging
person?

　What he takes and what he rejects does not really exist for him,
and in this life he sweeps away everything.

"The one who clings does reach controversy in all things":
"'Climbing', there are two kinds of clinging: clinging to craving and
clinging to seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is clinging to
craving...( This is the grasping of seeing. For him the grasping of
craving has not been abandoned; the grasping of seeing has not been
broken off, and the grasping of craving is the unbroken state of
grasping, the grasping of seeing. The unbroken state of mind reaches
controversy in all dharmas, becoming "the defiled", or the "disgusting
one", or the "ignorant one", or the "bounded one", or the "attached
one", or the "comer" To the scattered person, or to the unsatisfactory,
or to the resolute, those pretensions are not discarded, and the
undiscarded state of the pretense has reached a dispute on the point of
interest, becoming "falling to hell" or "a person who has fallen into
the realm of animals", or "a person who has fallen into the realm of
hungry ghosts", or a "human being", or a "heaven", or a "colored
person", or a "colorless person", or a "thinking person", or "Those who
do not think", or "Neither one who thinks nor one who does not think,"
he reaches, reaches, holds, grasps, clings to." For the clinging one
does indeed reach the dispute in dhammas.

"How and what can we say about non-attachment": "'Clinging', there
are two kinds of clinging: clinging to craving and clinging to seeing...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the clinging to craving... (Middle
abbreviation) ) This is the clinging of seeing. For him the clinging of
craving has been abandoned; the clinging of seeing has been abandoned,
in a state of abandoning the clinging of craving, the clinging of seeing
In the state of being cut off, you can speak with greed, hatred,
ignorance, slowness, perception, delusion, doubt, etc. With what
afflictions and underlying tendencies can we say that a person without
attachment is a "defiler", or a "disgusting person", or a "foolish
person", or a "bound person", or a "clinger", or "a person who has come
to distraction" ”, or “coming to the unsatisfactory”, or “coming to the
resolute”? What can be interesting about the state in which the pretense
has been discarded, and the pretentious ones have been discarded,
becoming a “hell who has fallen”… (Abbreviated in the middle) or "Those
who do not think, do not think"? He has no cause, no predestined
relationship, and no reason for this to be able to speak, speak, talk,
explain, and speak." By?

"What he takes and what he refuses do not exist for him": "The one
who takes is for me to see, but he doesn't have; Yes, he did not,
"rejected" is what should be released, he did not. Whoever has his
grasp, he should be released; whoever should be released, he has
grasped. , release has been transcended, an arahant has transcended
awakening, retreat, he is one who has descended, one who has practiced
action, one who has completed the journey, one who has reached the
direction, the cycle of birth and death, without his rebirth." Rejection
really doesn't exist for him.

"In this life he swept away all views": "For him, the sixty-two evil
views have been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, ceased, unable to
arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, and all evil views he has become
Sweep, shake off, shake off completely, shake off down, let go, drive
away, make an end, bring it to non-existence in this life.” For in this
life he sweeps away all views.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"The one who clings has indeed reached the dispute over all dharmas,
how and what can one say of the one who is free of attachment? What he
takes and what

　he rejects does not exist for him, and in this life he sweeps away
all views. ."

said the third [completed] of the disgusting group of eight.


Notes:
　1. How can one's own views be overcome? Being fixed by desire and
personal preference (=holding tightly after choosing the law = rejecting
and grasping the law) ⇒ speaking falsely with the true heart and knowing
it + reaching the dispute.
　2. Self-proclaimed virtue (self-esteem) is not a holy law (and the
same is true of others).
　12/11/2020 05:55
