
Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
4. Explanation of the Pure Eight Sutras
　　Next , the Explanation of the Pure Eight Sutras will say:
　　23. I see pure: the highest without disease, with the perfect purity
of seeing and being, and
　　　when so realized he knows "it is is the highest", "he is the pure
one who observes" he returns to wisdom.
　　"I see purity: the highest disease-free": "'I see purity', I see
purity, I see purity, I contemplate purity, I contemplate purity, I
observe purity. 'Highest disease-free', highest, attaining disease-free
who arrives at refuge, who arrives at refuge, who arrives at refuge, who
arrives without fear, who arrives at immortality, who arrives at
immortality, who arrives at Nirvana." See for me the pure: the highest
disease-free.
　　"By seeing, one is completely pure": "By seeing form with
eye-consciousness (Sri Lankan version), one is pure, pure, totally pure;
freed, liberated, totally freed, one becomes pure, becomes pure, becomes
universally pure; To be freed, to be freed, to be freed all over." To
see the complete purity of man.
　　"When he realizes in this way, he knows 'it is the highest'": "When
this is realized, understood, distinguished, sure, penetrated. 'This is
the highest, the first, the best, the best , the highest, the highest,
the highest.' After he knows, after understanding, after measuring,
after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying." For when he is
thus realized, he knows "it is the highest."
　　"'He is pure in contemplation' and he returns to wisdom": "Whoever
sees purity, he is pure in contemplation. 'He returns to wisdom', and he
who sees form with eye-consciousness returns to 'wisdom'; returns to
'path' '; back to the 'way'; back to the 'disengagement'." For "he is
the contemplative pure one" he returns to wisdom.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"I see purity: the highest without disease, the perfect purity of
seeing and human beings,
　　　Having thus realized that "it is the highest", "he is the one who
is pure in contemplation" he returns to wisdom.
　　24. If a person is pure by seeing, or he renounces suffering by wisdom,
　　　then thewriter becomes pure by others, and it should be said that
he is indeed the one who speaks like that.
　　"If one is pure by seeing": "If one sees form by eye-consciousness,
if one is pure, pure, completely pure; freed, liberated, completely
freed, then one becomes pure, pure, pure; freed, freed from To be
liberated, to be freed from all.” For the purity of one who sees oneself.
　　"Perhaps he abandons suffering with wisdom": "Seeing form with
eye-consciousness, if one abandons the suffering of birth, the suffering
of old age, the suffering of sickness, the suffering of death, the
suffering of sorrow, grief, despair, and despair." Let go of suffering.
　　"Then there are those who rely on others to become pure": "With
other things, with the impure path, with the traces of the wrong path,
with the non-extrication path, with the exception of mindfulness, with
the right effort, with the exception of the Except for the divine feet,
except for the roots, except for the powers, except for the
enlightenment factors, except for the eight-fold noble path, one becomes
pure, becomes pure, becomes universally pure; freed, liberated,
Universal detachment. 'Those who are dependent' are those who have
greed, those who have hatred, those who are delusional, those who are
slow, those who have craving, those who have [wrong] views, those who
have defilements, and those who have clinging." According to the author
becomes pure with others.
　　"It should be said that he is indeed the one who said that": "The
one who said that: like this, this person is the one who sees wrong, the
one who sees upside down. Teller, teller, explainer, teller: "The world
is permanent, this is what is true, and everything else is empty." It's
such a teller, teller, teller, teller, The speaker; "The world is very
constant... (Abbreviated) The world is limited...the world is
boundless...life is the body... life is one body and another...the
Tathagata exists after death...the Tathagata does not exist after
death...the Tathagata exists and does not existafter death...the
Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after death Existence, this
is real, everything else is empty. ' is such a talker, talker, talker,
interpreter, talker. ' To see that he is indeed such a speaker.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"If a man is pure by seeing, or he is renounced suffering by wisdom,
　　　then the dependent becomes pure by other things, and it should be
said that he is indeed the one who speaks like that."
　　25. Brahmins Purity from other things,
　　　uncontaminated in what you see, what you hear, precepts and
prohibitions, or what you perceive, in virtues and vices: give up what
you take, not hereto make it .
　　"Brahman does not speak of purity from other things, in what he
sees, hears, precepts and prohibitions, or what he perceives": "'No' is
negation. 'Brahman', the excluded state of the seven dharmas is Brahman:
having a body viewis excluded, Doubt is eliminated, abstinenceis
eliminated, greed is eliminated, hatred is eliminated, delusion is
eliminated, arrogance is eliminated, those evil and unwholesome dharmas
are eliminated: obedience to pollution, re-existence, fear, suffering
results, future Birth, old age and death.
　　[World-Honored One: "Serbia!"] [Sn.3.6, 524 verse]
　　After eliminating all evils, the good from defilement enters the
state of being settled, and
　　after transcending samsara, he becomes a perfect person, who does
not depend on it. , A person like this can be called a Brahman.
　　"Brahmins do not speak of purity from other things." "Anything else
is the impure path, the deviant path, the non-extrication path, except
the mindfulness, the right effort, and the feet of the gods. Except with
the roots, except with the power, except with the enlightenment factors,
except with the eight-fold Noble Path, there are pure, pure, universally
pure; liberation, liberation, universal liberation, Brahmins do not
speak, do not talk, do not talk about , do not explain, do not speak. '
For the Brahmins do not speak of purity from the other.
　　"In terms of what they see, hear, precepts and prohibitions or
perceptions," some ascetics and brahmins regard seeing as pure. They
believe (identify) that certain types of seeing are auspicious, and that
certain types of seeing are auspicious. Unlucky. What forms of sight do
they believe to be auspicious? They saw in the early morning (after
coming out of the dark one) auspicious forms: they saw sparrows, they
saw veluwa trees with gorgeous colors, they saw women who were pregnant,
they saw a boy walking on their shoulders, they saw A full urn, a
salmon, a steed, a chariot, a bull (the bull king), and an ox, they
believe it is auspicious to see things like that. What forms of sight do
they believe to be inauspicious? Saw the straw pile, saw the butter urn,
saw the empty urn, saw the dancer, saw the naked false ascetic, saw the
donkey horse, saw the donkey carriage ride, saw the yoke ride, saw the
one-eyed person, saw the hand deformed person, saw the lame person, saw
the hemiplegia Seeing the elderly, seeing the sick, they believe it is
unlucky to see things like that. These are those recluses and brahmins
who regard what they see as pure, they believe that what they see is
pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated, universally freed.
　　Some recluses and Brahmins regard what they hear as pure, and they
believe that hearing certain sounds is auspicious, and they believe that
hearing certain sounds is unlucky. Which sounds do they believe to be
auspicious? They heard auspicious sounds in the early morning (after
coming out of the dark): "Zeng (rich) [character]", or "precious (卍)",
or "full", or "gorgeous", or "worry-free" , or 'good intentions', or
'good stars', or 'good auspiciousness', or 'lucky', or 'lucky increase',
they believe that hearing sounds like this is auspicious. What sounds do
they believe to be unlucky to hear? "One-eyed [character]", or "deformed
hand", or "lame", or "hemiplegia", or "old man", or "patient", or
"dead", or "cut off", or " "Break", or "burn", or "disappear", or
"none", they believe it is unlucky to hear a sound like this. These are
those recluses and brahmins who take what they hear as pure, they
believe that what they hear is pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, universally freed.
　　Some recluses and brahmins regard morality as pure, and they believe
that the degree of morality, the degree of [self] restraint, the degree
of self-control, and the degree of non-violation are pure, pure,
universally pure; emancipation, liberation, universal renunciation. The
son of Sramana Mudi Ge said: The ownerof the house ! Iestablish that the
man who possesses the four dharmas is the one who is full of goodness,
the highest one of goodness, the one who attains the highest
attainments, and the invincible ascetic. Which four are there?
Homeowner! Here, he does not do evil deeds by himself, he does not speak
evil words, he does not intend evil intentions, and he does not live and
live by evil, owner of the house! I establish that the man who possesses
these four dharmas is the perfect one, the supreme one, the supreme
attained one, the invincible ascetic [ MN.78
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=78>]. In the same way,
some recluses and brahmins regard morality as pure. They believe that
the degree of morality, the degree of [self] restraint, the degree of
self-control, and the degree of non-violation are pure, pure,
universally pure; emancipation, liberation, universality break away.
　　Some recluses and Brahmins regard restraint as pure. They are those
who guard elephants, or those who guard horses, or those who guard
cattle, or those who guard dogs, or those who guard crows, or those who
guard Vishnu The gods are forbidden, or the guardians of the sky are
forbidden, or the people who keep the man are forbidden, or the pearls
are forbidden, or the fire is kept, or the dragon is forbidden, or the
Garuda is forbidden. , or those who keep the Yaksha restraints, or those
who keep the restraints of Asuras, or those who keep the restraints of
Gandharva, or those who keep the restraints of the Great King, or those
who keep the restraints of the moon, or those who keep the restraints of
the sun, or those who keep the restraints of Indra Those who are in
control of Ra, or those who guard Brahma, or those who guard the heaven,
or those who guard orientation, these are those recluses and Brahmins
who regard restraint as pure. They believe that restraint is pure, pure,
and all-pervasive; liberation, emancipation.
　　Some recluses and Brahmins regard what they perceive as pure, and in
the morning they touch the earth, the grass, the cow dung, the turtle,
the hoe, the sesame truck, the auspicious sesame seeds, the auspicious
oil, the auspicious tooth wood, and so on. Auspicious soil bathing,
wearing auspicious clothes, wrapping auspicious head scarves. These are
those recluses and brahmins who take the perception as pure, they
believe that the perception is pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, universally freed. [This is] Brahman does not speak of purity
from the other.
　　"In what he sees, what he hears, precepts and restraints, or what he
perceives," Brahmins do not speak of purity in terms of what they see;
they do not speak of purity in terms of what they hear; they do not
speak of purity in terms of morality; they do not speak of purity in
terms of restraint and purity; Pure means pure; don't talk, don't talk,
don't explain, don't speak. "Because the Brahmans do not speak of purity
from other things, in what they see, what they hear, what precepts and
restraints, or what they perceive.
　　"Untainted in merit and deed": "A merit is called any good deed in
any of the three realms, and an unwholesome deed is called all
unwholesome. has been severed, [as] a palm tree with its rootscut off ,
becomes non-existent , for the future unborn, this situation is that in
terms of merit and evil, he is not contaminated, not strongly
contaminated, not closely contaminated (non-contaminated), no longer
contaminated, no longer strongly contaminated, no longer closely
contaminated. Released, departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he
abides with a mind free from limitations. "In order not to be polluted
in good and evil.
　　"Abandoning what is taken is not here to make one": "'Abandoning
what is taken' is to give up my view; Everything that he holds, clings
to, clings to, clings to, and believes and understands will be
discarded, spit out, released, abandoned, and thought of. The maker, the
one who does not make it born, the one who is not produced, the one who
does not arise, and the one who is not born." The one who gives up and
takes, is not here to make.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"The Brahmins do not speak of purity from other things,
　　　not polluted in what they see, what they hear, what precepts and
prohibitions or what they perceive, in merit and deed: abandon what they
take, and do not make here."
　　26. After abandoning the previous ones, they become the subsequent
adherents. The disturbedfollowers do not pass through the dyeing, but
　　　they pick up and let go, like a monkey grabbing a branch and
letting it go.
　　"Abandon the previous one and become the follower": "Cut away the
previous master and become the follower of other masters; discard the
narration of the previous dharma and become the narrator of the other
dharma; renounce the previous mass become the adherents of other masses
after abandoning the previous view; become the adherents of other paths
after abandoning the previous path; become the adherent of other paths
after abandoning the previous path Those who are completely dependent,
those who are clinging, those who enter, those who are defiled, those
who turn their minds toward (the solution)." To let go of the former and
become the subsequent dependents.
　　"Followers of disturbances do not pass through defilements":
"Disturbance is called craving, which is greed, greed (complete
greed)... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. 'Followers of
disturbances', followers of disturbances Those who are disturbed,
followers of disturbances, those who follow disturbances, those who are
taken down by disturbances, those who are overthrown, those who conquer,
those whose minds are taken over. "They do not pass through the
defilement", the defilement of greed, the defilement of hatred, the
delusion They do not pass through, they do not transcend, they do not
pass, they do not pass, they do not overcome.” For the followers of
disturbance, they do not pass through the defilement. on.
　　"They pick up and let go": "They grab (pick up) the master, and
after letting go the other masters; hold on to the teaching of the
Dharma, and after letting go of the other, hold on to the teaching of
the other teachings; hold on to the crowd, Let go of that and grab the
other masses; catch the view, let go of that and catch the others; catch
the trail, let it go, and seize the other trails; grasp the way, let go
of that, and seize the other ways, They grab and let go; they take and
let go." Pick up and let go for them.
　　"Like a monkey grabbing a branch and then letting it go": "Like a
monkey roaming in a forest or a forest grabbing a branch, letting go of
that branch and then grabbing another branch [ SN.12.61
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.61>], in the same way,
most ascetics and brahmins Catch and let go; take and let go of the
majority of bad views." To be like a monkey grabbing a branch and
letting it go.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Abandoning what is before becomes the follower. Disturbing
followers, they do not pass through the affliction.
　　　They pick up and let go, like a monkey grabbing a branch and
letting it go."
　　27. Oneself After being restrained, those who want to stick to him
go to high and low, after the
　　　wise people use the Vedas to get the law, the broad-wisdom does
not go to high and low.
　　"After a man himself is restrained from holding": "'Self restrained'
is restrained by oneself. ' restraint ' is elephant restraint, or horse
restraint, or cattle restraint, or dog restraint, or crow restraint, or
Vishnu restraint, Or the prohibition of Litian, or the prohibition of
Manxian, or the prohibition of Zhuxian, or the prohibition of fire, or
the prohibition of dragons, or the prohibition of Garuda, or the
prohibition of Yaksha, or the prohibition of Asura... (abbreviated in
the middle), or the prohibition of orientation, after he grasps , After
holding, after taking, after bearing, after picking up, after grasping,
after grasping. "Human", "beings, human beings... (Middle abbreviated)
those born of Manu." back.
　　"Those who want to stick to him go to high and low": "He goes from
master to master; from the teaching of the Dharma to the teaching of the
Dharma; from the masses to the masses; from seeing to seeing; from the
trail to the trail ; From the Tao to the Tao. "To be attached to by
thoughts," to be attached to, to be entangled with, to entangle, to be
attached to, to be attached to, to be obstructed by thoughts of desires,
to thoughts of evil, to thoughts of harm, to thoughts of seeing Being
attached, entangled, attached, attached, fixed, and obstructed.
Likewise, attached to, entangled, tethered, attached, attached to, and
obstructed by thoughts of desire, malicious thoughts, thoughts of harm,
and thoughtsof seeing.” He goes high and low.
　　"After the wise man has made the Vedas lawful": "The wise man" is
the wise man, the one who has reached enlightenment, the wise man, the
wise man, the wise man. "With the Vedas", the Vedas are called wisdom,
wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, Dharma-choice enlightenment factor,
investigation, vipassana, and right view on the four paths. Take those
who have reached the ultimate (goal) in the Vedic life; those who have
reached the ultimate, have reached the end; those who have reached the
end, have reached the boundary (the ultimate); those who have reached
the boundary, have reached the end; Those who have reached the end, have
reached the rescue center; those who have reached the rescue center have
reached the refuge; those who have reached the refuge have reached the
place of refuge; those who have reached the place of refuge have reached
the place of no terror; those who have reached the place of no terror
Those who have reached the immortal; have reached the immortal; have
reached the immortal; have reached the immortal, have reached Nirvana;
have reached Nirvana. Either "the one who has reached the end of the
Vedas" is the one who knows the Vedas, or "the one who has reached the
end of the Vedas" is the one who knows the Vedas, or the known state of
the seven dharmas is the one who knows the Vedas: there is an experience
to be known , Suspicion is known, abstinence is known, greed is known,
hatred is known, ignorance is known, laziness is known, all its evil and
unwholesome dharmas are known: obedience to pollution, reappearance,
fear, bitter fruit, The future will be old and dead.
　　[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 534 verses]
　　"Choose all the Vedas, whoever belongs to the ascetic and brahmin
who exist here,
　　　free from greed in all sensations, and after surpassing all the
Vedas, he is Those who are familiar with the Vedas."
　　"The wise take the Vedas to know the law": "To meet, to see the
Dhamma: "All actions are impermanent" is to meet, to see the Dhamma;
"All actions are suffering" is to meet, to see After contemplating the
Dharma; "All dharmas are non-self" is the meeting, and after
contemplating the Dharma; After meeting and contemplating the Dharma;
with consciousness as the condition, there is name and form...
(abbreviated in the middle) With name and form as the condition, there
are six senses...with the six senses as the condition, there is
contact...with the contact as the condition, there is feeling...
Dependent on feeling, there is craving...with craving as a condition,
there is clinging...with craving as a condition, there is
existence...with existence as a condition, there is birth..."In birth,
there is old age and death" as a meeting, After contemplating the
Dharma; "With the cessation of ignorance and the cessation of formations
(and the cessation of formations exists)" is the meeting, after
contemplating the Dharma; Extinguishing...with the cessation of name and
form, there are six cessations...with the cessation of the six senses,
there is the cessation of contact...with the cessation of contact, there
is the cessation of feeling...with the cessation of feeling, there is
craving...with the cessation of craving, there is clinging.
Extinguishing...with cessation, there will be cessation...with
cessation, there will be birth and cessation..."With birth and
cessation, there will be old age and death" is the meeting, after seeing
the Dharma; "This is suffering" is the meeting, after seeing the Dharma;
This is the result of suffering"..."This is the cessation of
suffering"..."This is the path leading to the path of suffering" is the
confluence, after contemplation; "..."This is the cessation of the
taint"..."This is the path leading to the taint" is the meeting, after
seeing the Dhamma; "These Dhammas should be realized" is the meeting,
after the Dhamma; "The Dhammas should be pervaded" Knowing"..."These
dharmas should be discarded"..."These dharmas should be
practised"..."These dharmas should be witnessed" as meeting, after
contemplating thedharmas; taste, affliction, escape' is after meeting
and contemplating the Dharma; "the arising , cessation, blissful taste,
fault, and renunciation of the five aggregates of clinging" are after
the meeting and illuminating the dharma; , Defects, and Leavingmeeting
and presenting the Dharma; ' for the wise after the Vedas would be
legitimized. 　　"Guangzhi does not go from high to low": "He does not
go from master to master; he does not follow the teaching of the Dharma
to the teaching of the law; he does not go from the masses to the
masses; he does not go from seeing to seeing; he does not follow the
Tao. The trail goes to the trail; it does not go from the Tao to the
Tao. "Guanghui", the Guanghui refers to the Great Wisdom, the Broad
Wisdom, the Quick Wisdom, the Quick Wisdom, the Beneficial Wisdom, and
the Insightful Wisdom. The earth is called Guang, he possesses the same
vast and expanding wisdom as that of the earth." Those who are wise do
not go high or low. 　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"After a man himself has been restrained, he is tempted to cling to
him to go up and down. After the 　　　wise man uses the Vedas to make
law, the wise man does not go up and down." 　　28. He is in The one who
leaves the legion in all dharmas: whoever sees or hears or perceives,
　　　that one who sees, who has opened up, who can classify [him] in
this world? 　　"He is the one who leaves the legion in all ways:
whatever he sees or hears": "The legion is called the army of demons,
and acts evil in deeds; acts evil in speech; acts evil in deed; acts
evil in greed. An army; hatred is a demon army; madness is a demon army;
anger is a demon army; resentment is a demon army... (Abbreviated in the
middle) All the bad things are created as a demon army. 　　This is said
by the Blessed One: [Sn.3.2, 438-441 verse]








　　"Desire is your first legion,
　　　unhappiness is your second, hunger and thirst your third, craving
your fourth.
　　　Deep sleep is your fifth, fear is said to be sixth,
　　　doubt is your seventh, and hiding evil and stubbornness is your
eighth.
　　　Gain a reputation with respect, and those who gain fame by mistake,
　　　praise themselves and despise others.
　　　demon! This is your legion, the evil (black) attacker,
　　　 whoever has no courage willnot defeat him, but will gain comfort
after victory. 』
　　When all the demon army and all hostile pollution are conquered,
defeated, destroyed, disintegrated, and turned away by the Four Noble
Ways, he is called the one who leaves the army. He was out of the army
in what he saw; out of the army in what he heard; out of the army in
what he felt; out of the army in what he knew. "Because he is out of the
army in all things: whatever he sees or hears.
　　"The one who sees thus, the one who is opened": "The seer who is so
pure, the seer who is pure, the seer who is pure; the seer who is pure,
the seer who is pure, or the seer who is pure, Pure seeing, all-seeing
pure; clear seeing, all-clear seeing. "Opened", there is the covering of
craving, the covering of seeing, the covering of defilement, the
covering of evil deeds, the covering of ignorance, those coverings are
Opened, destroyed, unraveled, completely unraveled, abandoned, cut off,
calmed, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom. , who
walks, who dwells, who does act, who turns, who protects, who who
sustains, who who brings into existence.” For the one who thus sees, who
is opened.
　　"Who can classify [him] in this world": ""Classification", there are
two classifications: the classification of [cause] craving and the
classification of [cause] seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the classification of craving...( This is the classification of seeing.
For him, the classification of craving has been abandoned, the
classification of seeing has been abandoned, and the classification of
craving has been abandoned, and the classification of seeing has been
abandoned. The state of greed can be classified by what greed can be,
what can be classified by hatred, what can be classified by ignorance,
what can be classified by slowness, what can be classified by what
perception can be classified by, what can be classified by apathy, what
can be classified by doubt, what can be classified by affliction
potential Tendencycan be classified [him], to be "the one who is
defiled," or "the one who is disgusting," or "the one who is ignorant,"
or "the one who is bound", or "the one who clings," or "the one who
comes to distraction," or "To the unsatisfactory", or "to the resolute"?
How can those states in which the actions and actions have been
discarded, and the state of the actions and actions have been discarded,
be classified as "those who have fallen to hell", or "those who have
fallen into hell". Those who have fallen into the realm of animals, or
have fallen into the realm of hungry ghosts, or have fallen into the
realm of hungry ghosts. Or "Neither a thinker nor a non-thinker"? He has
no cause, no condition, no factor by which to classify, distinguish, and
come. "In the world", in the world of sufferingthe world of human
beings, in the heavens The world of the khandha, the world of the
aggregates, the world of the world, the world of being." For who can
classify [him] in this world.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He is the one who leaves the legion in all dharmas: whoever sees or
hears, the one
　　　who sees, the one who opens up, who in this world can classify
[him]?"
　　29. They don't construct, they don't value, they don't say "it
　　　's pure after all," and they don't wish anywhere in the world
after letting go of the bondage of attachment.
　　"They don't construct, they don't pay attention": "Construction,
there are two kinds of constructions: the construction of [cause]
craving and the construction of [cause] view... (Middle abbreviation)
This is the construction of craving... (Middle abbreviation) This is It
is the construction of seeing. "For them the construction of craving has
been abandoned, the construction of seeing has been abandoned, and the
construction of craving has been abandoned, and the construction of
seeing has been abandoned. , the construction of craving or the
construction of view they do not construct, do not cause it to produce,
do not cause it to produce, do not cause it to arise, do not cause it to
produce." For they do not construct. "No emphasis (no preference)", "
There are two kinds of emphasis: the emphasis of [due to] craving and
the emphasis of [due to] seeing... (Middle abbreviation) This is the
emphasis of craving... (Middle abbreviation) This is the emphasis of
view. For them, craving The value of craving has been abandoned, the
value of view has been abandoned, and in the state that the value of
craving has been abandoned, and the value of seeing has been abandoned,
they set (do) no craving or no vision. Walk in front (pay attention) and
walk behind, without craving as a banner, without craving as a banner,
without craving as an increase, without seeing as a banner, without
seeing as a banner, without seeing as an increase, not being craved or
seen Follow along." Because they don't construct, they don't value.
　　"They don't say 'it is absolutely pure'": "It is absolutely pure,
the unworked view of samsara, the doctrine of permanence, they don't
say, don't talk, don't talk, don't explain, don't say." For they don't
say " It's pure."
　　"After letting go of the bondage of attachment": "'tie', there are
four kinds of bondage: the bondage of greed, bondage of malice,
bondageof abstinence, [only] this is the real bondage Attachment to the
body binding [ SN.45.175
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.175>]. The greed of
one's own view is the body binding of greed, the anger and
dissatisfaction in the words of others are the body binding of malice,
"attaching one's own precepts or prohibitions or abstinence" and
prohibition” is the body binding of the abstinence, the body binding of
the holding of one’s own view ( Ni.13
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni13.htm>, 147 verse)] for [only] this
is the body tie of true holding. For what reason is it called the
attachment bond? With those knots, they grasp, grasp, hold, cling to,
cling to, feel... (abbreviated in the middle) think... act... know...
interest... rebirth... rebirth... have (existence) ) . . . samsara . . .
samsara them grasping, clinging, holding, clinging, clinging, and for
this reason it is called the clinging bond. "After renunciation", after
giving up on the tie, after renunciation, or on the tie, on the tie, on
the tie, on the bondage, on the enlargement of the tie, on the
entangled, on the attached On the fixed, on the obstacle, on the binding
After being shaken(?) After being separated, such as a sedan chair, or a
carriage, or a wagon, or a chariot [people, things] that should be
transported ] After releasing (renunciation) they place, destroy,
likewise, after renunciation on the binding, or on the binding, on the
binding, on the binding, on the binding, on the enlarged binding , on
the entangled, on the attached, on the anchored, on the obstructed, on
the binding after being shaken and renounced. ' is after the bondage of
renunciation of the bondage of clinging.
　　"They don't make wishes no matter where they are in the world":
"Wishes are called cravings, which are greed, greed... (Abbreviated in
the middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. 'Do not wish', wish
they do not do, do not make produce, do not produce, do not arise, do
not produce. "Wherever", no matter where, no matter where, no matter
where, inside or outside or outside. "In the world", in The world of the
miserable world...the world in which (abridged in the middle) is." No
matter where they are in the world, they make no wish.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"They don't construct, they don't value, they don't say 'it is pure
after all', and
　　　after letting go of the ties of attachment, they don't wish
anywhere in the world."
　　30. Passed Brahmins of boundaries, those who are not grasped by him
after knowing and seeing, those who are not greedy, those who are
greedy, those who are
　　　not greedy .The greedy one who is free from greed hasno supreme
hold for him here.
　　"A brahmin who has crossed the limit, after knowing it and seeing
it, he is not grasped tightly": "Boundary", there are four kinds of
boundaries: body view, doubt, abstinence and grasping, seeing the
potential tendencyof defilement , doubting defilement The underlying
tendency, the pollution that co-exists with it, is the first boundary,
the gross attachment to lust, the attachment to aversion, the underlying
tendency of the gross lustdefilement of aversion, and the pollution that
coexists with it is the second boundary , the remaining cravings, the
aversion knots, the remaining cravings and vexations potential, the
aversion afflictions potential trends, and the contamination that
co-exist with them, this is the third boundary, lust for lust, lust for
immateriality, arrogance, ignorance, ignorance, and ignorance . The
latent tendency of afflictions, the latent tendencyof greed afflictions,
the latent tendencyof ignorance afflictions, and the contamination that
coexists with them are the fourth boundary. When these four boundaries
are traversed, crossed, and overcome by the Four Noble Paths, it is said
to have crossed the boundaries. "Brahmin", the excluded state of the
seven dharmas is Brahman: one who has body view is excluded, doubt is
excluded, precepts are excluded... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who
do not rely on them can be called Brahman. "To him," to an arahant; to
one whose defilements have been exhausted.
　　"After knowing", after knowing with his mind, or knowing with the
wisdom of memory of past lives. "After seeing", after seeing with the
naked eye, or after seeing with the celestial eye. "A brahmin who has
crossed the limit is not grasped for him after knowing and seeing": "For
him, 'this is the highest, the first, the most excellent, the most
excellent, the first The highest, the highest, the highest.” Holding,
grasping, clinging, grasping, believing that he does not have, does not
exist, is not known, is not discovered, has been abandoned, cut off, To
be calmed down, to be stopped, to be unable to arise, to be burned by
the fire of wisdom." As a brahmin who has crossed the limit, knowing and
seeing are not grasped by him.
　　"Those who are not greedy, have greed, and who are not free from
greed": Those who are greedy are called those who are greedy, greedy,
bound, fascinated, tainted, attached to the five desires. fixed,
hindered. Those who are free from greed are called those who are tainted
with greed, craved, bound, fascinated, tainted, attached, affixed, and
obstructed in the realm of form, formless, etc. "Those who are not
greedy with greed, those who are not free from greed," because lust,
lust, and immaterial greed have been abandoned, their roots have been
cut off, [like] a palm tree whoseroots have been cut off, and become
non-being, For things that will not arise in the future, this situation
is the greedy person who is not greedy, and the greedy person who is not
free from greed.
　　"Here is not the highest for him to be held": "'for him', for the
Arahant; for the one whose defilements have been exhausted. For him,
'this is the highest, the first The best, the best, the best, the
highest, the highest, the highest.” Holding, grasping, clinging,
grasping, believing that he doesn’t have, doesn’t exist, doesn’t know,
doesn’t To be found, to be abandoned, cut off, to be calmed down, to
cease, to be unable to arise, to be burned by the fire of wisdom." For
him there is no supreme grasp here.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"A brahmin who has crossed the limit, who knows and sees that is not
grasped for him,
　　　The greedy person who is not greedy, the greedy person who is not
free from greed, has no supreme grasp here for him. "
　　The Explanation of the Pure Eight Sutras Fourth [Completed].


Notes:
　1. After letting go of the bondage of attachment (= not
constructing/not valuing), they do not wish anywhere in the world.
　2. Purity does not come from what you see/hear/precept and prohibit/feel.
　3. Those who are not greedy (desire) with greed, and those who are not
greedy (colorless) do not have the highest grasp.
　4. Desire (āsā-hope/desire) is called craving.
　12/11/2020 06:10
Commentary:
　　 "The one who is not here to make" (nayidha pakubbamāno), "Light of
the Dharma" explains it as "things that are not artificial such as
meritorious deeds" (puññābhisaṅkhārādīnaṃ akaraṇato).
　　 "Those who have no courage" (asuro, the original meaning is
"Asura", but it is difficult to relate to the context), "Dharma Light"
is better as "those who have no courage" (asūro).
　　 "Behind by the shock" (poṭayitvā, phoṭayitvā in the Thai version),
explained by pappoṭayitvā in The Light of the Dharma. However, none of
poṭayitvā, pappoṭayitvā, and phoṭayitvā have been able to find out their
meanings. For the time being, we will interpret them as the passive
continuum of phoṭeti (ger. of pass.).
　　 "Those who are greedy have greed" (rāgarāgī), which is explained in
"The Light of Dharma" as "the state of greed" (kāmarāgābhāvato).
　　 "A person who is free from greed" (virāgaratto), explained in "The
Light of Right Dharma" as "the state of greed pertaining to form,
formless" (rūpārūparāgābhāvato).
