
Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
5. Explanation of the highest eight setsof sutras
　　Next of the highest eight sets of sutras will say:
　　31. Those who stay on the "highest" see: whoever is placed higher in
the world,
　　　from there He said all others were "inferior", so the argument was
not overcome.
　　"Those who stay on the 'highest' view": "Some recluses and brahmins
are evilviews , and they take one of the sixty-two evil views as: 'This
is the highest, the first, the most victorious' , the supreme, the
first, the highest, the highest.” After holding, after grasping, after
picking up, after grasping, after clinging, they dwell, dwell, dwell,
dwell (pervasive dwelling) in their respective views. ), such as family
members living in the home, or sinners living in sin, or defilers living
in pollution. Similarly, some ascetic and brahmins are evil-viewers, and
they take one of the sixty-two evil views. See it as: "This is the
highest, the first, the best, the best, the highest, the highest, the
highest." After grasping, grasping, picking up, grasping, and clinging,
they Dwelling, dwelling, going dwelling, dwelling (universal dwelling)
on ​​their respective views." Those who dwell on the "highest" view.
　　"Anyone who is higher in the world": "'Any (Yada)' is a person
(yaṃ). 'Anyone who is higher (kurute),' is (karoti) higher, first and
last The best, the best, the best, the best, the best. "This master is
all the wise" He is (thinks) the best, the first, the best, the best,
the best, The highest, the highest; this Dharma is well spoken... This
group is a goodpractitioner ... This view is good... This path is well
established... "This way is renunciation" he added. The highest, the
highest, the highest, the highest, the highest, the highest, the
highest, He causes it to arise, to give birth to it. "Human" means all
living beings, human beings, ... (Middle omitted) Born of Manu. "In the
world," in The world of the world of suffering... The world of
(abbreviated in the middle). ' for those who are placed higher in the
world.
　　"From there he calls all others 'inferior'": "He renounces, uproots,
and surrounds all dissent except for his own master, narration, group,
view, path, and path: 'The master is not everything Wise man, Dharma is
not well spoken, [its] group is not good deeds, seeing is not good, the
traces of the Way are not established by goodness, the Way is not
detached, there is no purity here, or pure, or universally pure;
detachment, or Liberated, or universally freed, there is no where they
become pure, or pure, or universally pure, or freed, or freed, or
universally freed, inferior, inferior, inferior, inferior of inferior
intentions, of insignificant.” So saying, so telling, so talking, so
explaining, so saying.” For from there he said all others as “inferior.”
　　"Therefore disputing is not overcome": "'Therefore', that reason;
that cause; that condition; that cause. 'Dispute', seeing quarrel,
seeing arguing, seeing quarrel, seeing arguing, seeing disagreement.
"Not to be overcome," not to be crossed, not to be crossed, not to be
overcome." For this reason the argument is not to be overcome.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He who rests on the 'highest' view: whoever is placed higher in the
world,
　　　from there he calls all others 'inferior', and therefore the
argument is not overcome."
　　32. Where He who sees benefits in himself, in what he sees, hears,
precepts and prohibitions, or
　　　feels, sees everything else as despicable after he holds it tightly.
　　"Anyone who sees benefits in himself, in what he sees, hears,
precepts and prohibitions, or perceives": "'every+in himself' is all-in
himself. Self is called evil view, he sees his own The two benefits of
seeing: the benefit of the present life and the benefit of the next
life. What is the benefit of seeing the present? All the views that the
master has, so do the disciples, and the disciples respect, respect,
respect, and worship the view of the master. Respect], from that cause
he obtains clothes, food, shelter, necessities for the sick, medical
necessities, this is the benefit of seeing. What is the afterlife
benefit of seeing? This seeing is enough to become a state of dragon
(dragon realm), or gold The state of the winged bird, or the state of
the Yaksha, or the state of the Asura, or the state of the Gandharva, or
the state of the great king, or the state of Indra, or the state of
Brahma, or the state of the gods, this view is sufficient to belong to
purity , pure, universally pure; detached, liberated, universally
detached, with this see they become pure, become pure, universally pure;
detached, liberated, universally detached, "With this I see that I will
become pure, become pure, become universally pure; Freed, freed, freed
from everywhere." He is the expectant of the future fruit. This is the
afterlife benefit of seeing. He sees these two benefits of what he
sees... He sees the two benefits of the purity of what he sees... He
sees the purity of what he hears. Two benefits... He sees two benefits
of purity of morality... He sees two benefits of purity of restraint...
He sees two benefits of perceived purity: benefits in the present life
and benefits in the next life. What is perceived purity The benefits of
life? All the masters have views, and the disciples also have...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the benefit of the perceived purity
of life. What is the benefit of the perceived purity in the next life?
This view is enough to become the state of a dragon (Dragon World) ) ...
(abbreviated in the middle) This is the effect of the perceived purity
in the next life, and he sees, sees, watches, contemplates, and observes
these two effects of the perceived purity." Smell, abstain, and prohibit
or perceive.
　　"Just the one he holds there tightly": "The "just that" is the evil
view. "There", in his own opinion, in his own liking, in his own
preference, in his own opinion "After holding tightly," "This is the
highest, the first, the most victorious, the most victorious, the top,
the top, the top." Afterwards, after attachment.” It was just that after
he held tightly there.
　　"To see everything else as inferior": "He thinks, sees, sees,
beholds, contemplates, observes other masters, narrations of the Dhamma,
groups, seeing, traces of the Way, the Way is inferior, inferior,
inferior, inferior , of inferior intentions, of insignificant.” To see
everything else as vile.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Whoever sees benefit in himself, in what he sees, hears, precepts
and prohibitions, or perceives,
　　　is the one he holds there and sees everything else as despicable."
　　33. Good The clever ones say that it is the tie: those who depend on
them and those who see others as inferior,
　　　so what they see or hear or feel, precepts and prohibitions should
not be followed by monks.
　　"Skillful ones say that that is the tie": "'Skillful ones', those
who are skillful in accumulation, skillful in world, skillful in
processing, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in mindfulness,
skillful in righteousness We, the skillful in the mind and feet, the
skillful in the roots, the skillful in the power, the skillful in the
enlightenment factor, the skillful in the path, the skillful in the
fruit, the skillful in nirvana, these skillful ones say: 'This is the
tie , this is clinging, this is binding, this is hindrance.' They say
this, tell this, tell this, explain this, say this." For the skilled
people say that is the binding.
　　"Those who rely on others and those who see others as inferior":
"'Those who rely on', those who are masters, teachings of the Dharma,
groups, views, traces of the Tao, those who rely on the Tao, those who
fully rely, those who adhere to it, One who enters, one who is defiled,
one who turns his mind toward (the superior solution). "Those who see
others as inferior," who thinks, sees, sees, beholds, contemplates,
considers, observes other masters, teachings, groups, seeing, The path,
the path, is inferior, inferior, inferior, inferior, inferior in
intention, insignificant.” For those who depend on them and those who
see others as inferior.
　　"Therefore, what he sees or hears or perceives, the precepts and
prohibitions should not be followed by a monk": "'Therefore', therefore;
that reason; that cause; that condition; that cause, he should not rely
on, should not hold, You should not cling to what you see, or what you
see is pure, or what you hear, or what you hear is pure, or what you
feel, or what you perceive to be pure, or discipline, or discipline, or
prohibition, or prohibition to be pure.” What a monk has heard or felt,
precepts and prohibitions should not be followed.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Skillful ones say that is the tie: those who depend on others are
inferior,
　　　so what they see or hear or feel, precepts and prohibitions, monks
should not depend on."
　　34. In Nor should the world build up views: with wisdom or with
precepts and restraints,
　　　one should not lead oneself to be "equal," nor should it be
considered inferior or superior.
　　"In the world, neither should we build up views: with wisdom, or
with precepts and prohibitions": "It should not be based on the eighth-
levelsupreme wisdom, or the five supernatural wisdom, or the evil
wisdom, or the precepts, or the prohibitions, or the precepts and the It
is forbidden to build, to produce, to produce, to arise, to produce
view. "In the world", inthe world of the world of suffering...
(abbreviated in the middle) in the world." In order not to build views
in the world, use wisdom Or with precepts and prohibitions.
　　"You should not lead yourself to be 'equal'": "It should not be
based on birth, or by surname, or by good family, or by beauty as a
lotus flower, or by property, or by research (acquisition), or by karma
, or by craftsmanship, or by clarity (academic), or by what is heard, or
by eloquence, or by something to lead oneself as 'I am equal'." Because
one should not lead oneself as "equal" .
　　"Nor should be considered inferior or superior": "You should not use
birth, or surname... (abbreviated) or lead yourself to something as 'I
am inferior'. You should not use birth, or surname... ... (abbreviated
in the middle) or lead myself to something as 'I am the winner'."
Neither should it be considered inferior or superior.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Neither should one build up views in the world: with wisdom or with
precepts and restraints,
　　　one should not lead oneself as 'equal', nor should one consider
inferior or superior." 35
　　. After he gets what he has obtained, he becomes the author of no
acquisition, and he does not rely on wisdom.
　　　He is indeed not a member of the group that has been divided, and
he does not return to any view.
　　"Abandon what has been obtained and become the author of
non-attachment": "'Abandoning what has been obtained' is after
abandoning my view; "Because of craving, seeing, grasping, grasping,
clinging, grasping, believing and understanding, after he has given up,
after he has given up, after he has driven away, after he has finished,
after he has made it to non-existence. ." To give up what has been
obtained. "No-attachment", from the four types of grasping to become
non-attachment, non-holding, non-attachment, and non-attachment." After
giving up what has been acquired, it becomes non-attachment author.
　　"He also does not rely on wisdom": "He does not rely on the eight
highest wisdom, or the five supernatural wisdom, or the evil wisdom to
establish, produce, produce, produce, produce craving. stop or rely on
seeing.” Because he did not rely on wisdom.
　　"He is definitely not a group member in the divided": "He is
definitely not in the divided, broken, into two (contradiction), arising
in two (doubt), different views, different likes, different Those who
love, those who have different opinions, those who do not rely on their
opinions, those who are greedy and who should not be doing things, those
who are hated who should not be doing things, those who are delusional
who should not be doing things Among those who walk, those who do not
follow desire should not walk, those who do not follow anger should not
walk, those who do not follow delusion should not walk, those who do not
follow terror should not walk, those who do not walk because of greed,
and those who do not walk because of hatred walk, don't walk because of
ignorance, don't walk because of slowness, don't walk because of seeing,
don't walk because of ignorance, don't walk because of doubt, don't walk
because of vexation potential trends, don't be driven or guided by
discord , to carry, to conquer." For he is indeed not an intruder among
the divided.
　　"He does not return to any view": "For him, the sixty-two bad views
have been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, ceased, unable to arise,
burned by the fire of wisdom, and he does not return, does not return
any evil view." Because he does not return to any view.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"After he has given up what he has acquired, he becomes a master of
no-attachment, and he does not rely on wisdom.
　　　He is indeed not a member of the group of those who have been
divided, and he does not return to any view." 36
　　. For him the vows on both sides are not here: for the sake of all
beings, here or in other worlds,
　　　for him any abiding does not exist: after being chosen in the
Dharma, it is held.
　　"Whatever is for him on both sides is not here": "whatever is for
him", for the arahant; for the one whose influxes have been exhausted.
"Edge", touch is one side, contact is the second side; It is one side,
and the six outer places are the second side; having a body is one side,
and having a body is the second side. Vows are called craving, which is
greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle) greed, the
root of unwholesome greed.
　　"For the sake of various beings": for the sake of karma, there are
various kinds of beings, for the sake of wanting to be, and for the sake
of wanting to be. The karma that exists is there for the sake of being
there again and again; for the sake of the place of interest again and
again, for the sake of being reborn again and again, for the sake of
rebirth again and again, for the rebirth of the individual again and
again. "Here": one's own individual, "in other realms": other
individuals; "here": one's own form, perception, perception, and action;
"in other realms": other form, perception, perception, and action;
"here": six The inner world, "in other worlds": the six outer worlds;
"here": the world of human beings, "in other worlds": the world of
heaven; "here": the world of desire, "in other worlds": the realm of
form, the realm of formlessness; Here": the realm of desire, the realm
of form, "in other realms": the realm of formlessness. "Whatever vows to
him on both sides are not here: for all things, here or in other
worlds": "Whatever vows, cravings, cravings, for him on two sides, for
all things, here or in other worlds They do not exist, they do not
exist, they are not known, they are not discovered, they are discarded,
they are cut off, they are calmed down, they are stopped, they cannot
arise, they are burned by the fire of wisdom." Not here: for all beings,
here or elsewhere.
　　"For him any dwelling does not exist": "Dwelling", there are two
kinds of dwelling: the dwelling of craving and the dwelling of seeing...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the dwelling of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is live and see. "To him," to an arahant; to one
whose defilements have been exhausted. "To him any dwelling does not
exist": "To him any dwelling does not exist, does not exist, does not
exist, is not known, is not discovered, is abandoned, severed, calmed,
ceased , cannot arise, and be burned by the fire of wisdom." For him,
any dwelling does not exist.
　　"After being chosen in the law, it is held tightly": "'in the law',
in the sixty-two evil views. "After choosing", after deciding, after
judging, after choosing, after checking, after measuring, after judging
, after separation, after clarification. "Being grasped", limited grasp,
partial grasp, top grasp, fixed grasp, accumulation grasp, full
accumulation grasp: "This is true, true, true, factual , correct, not
upside down.” But held, grasped, clinging, grasped, believed, they do
not exist, do not exist, are not known, are not discovered, have been
abandoned, cut off, To be calmed down, to be stopped, to be unable to
arise, to be burned by the fire of wisdom." To be held tightly after
being determined in the Dhamma.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Whatever vows for him on both sides are not here: for all beings,
here or in other worlds,
　　　for him any abiding does not exist: they are held firmly after
being determined in the Dhamma. 37. For him, there is no subtle
perception (
　　overall calculation) in what he has seen, heard, and felt.
　　　That Brahman, who does not pick up and see, who can classify [him]
in this world?
　　"For him, there is no subtle fixation on what he has seen, heard,
and felt": "'For him,' for an arahant; For him, in what he sees, or what
he sees, or what he hears, or what he hears is pure, or what he
perceives, or what he perceives to be pure, the situation where he wants
to lead, the situation where he wants to increase (saññādhipateyyatā,
PTS version), with Those who want to argue, those who want to be
generated, those who are fully generated, those who build up, those who
think about it, those who do, those who make up, those who make them
live together, see that they don’t exist, don’t exist, don’t know, don’t
find, have been abandoned. cut off, cut off, calmed down, stopped,
unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom.” For him, there is no
subtle contemplation (pervasive calculation) in what he sees, hears, and
feels.
　　"The Brahman who does not pick up and see": "Brahman", the excluded
state of the seven dharmas is Brahman: having a body viewis excluded...
(Abbreviated in the middle) Those who do not rely on it, such as this
can be called a Brahman. "That Brahman who does not pick up and see":
"That Brahman is one who does not pick up and see, who does not hold,
who does not grasp, and who does not grasp." For that Brahman, who does
not pick up and see.
　　"Who can classify [him] in this world": ""Classification", there are
two classifications: the classification of [cause] craving and the
classification of [cause] seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the classification of craving...( This is the classification of seeing.
For him, the classification of craving has been abandoned, the
classification of seeing has been abandoned, and the classification of
craving has been abandoned, and the classification of seeing has been
abandoned. The state of greed can be classified by what greed can be,
what can be classified by hatred, what can be classified by ignorance,
what can be classified by slowness, what can be classified by what
perception can be classified by, what can be classified by apathy, what
can be classified by doubt, what can be classified by affliction
potential Tendencycan be classified [him], to be "the one who is
defiled," or "the one who is disgusting," or "the one who is ignorant,"
or "the one who is bound", or "the one who clings," or "the one who
comes to distraction," or "To the unsatisfactory", or "to the resolute"?
How can the state of the pretense that has been discarded and all the
pretentious things be discarded be classified as "the one who has fallen
to hell" or "the one who has fallen into the beast" "Those who have
fallen into the realm of hungry ghosts", or "people", or "heaven", or
"colored ones", or "colorless ones", or "thinking ones", or "no-thinking
ones", or " He is neither a thinker nor a non-thinker'? He has no cause,
no predestination, no factor by which he can classify, distinguish, and
come. "In the world", inthe world of the world of suffering...
(abbreviated in the middle) The world at ” for who can classify [him] in
this world.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"For him, there is no subtle fixation on what he sees, what he
hears, and what he perceives.
　　　That Brahman, who does not pick up and see, who can classify in
this world? He]?”
　　38. They do not construct, do not value, and for them all dharmas
are not received,
　　　Brahmins are not guided by precepts and prohibitions, and those
who have reached the other shore like thatdo not retreat.
　　"They don't construct, they don't pay attention": "'Construction',
there are two kinds of construction: the construction of [cause] craving
and the construction of [cause] view, what is the construction of
craving? , as a state, as a range, as a boundary, grasped, as one's own:
this is mine, this is mine, so much is mine, and this extent is mine; My
look, my voice, my smell, my taste, what I touched, what I put on the
ground, my coat, my maid and my servant, my goat and my sheep, my
chicken and my pig, my elephant, my ox and my horse, my mule and my
horse, my field, my homestead, my gold, gold coins, Villages, towns,
capitals, localities, treasuries, warehouses, all the earth, which,
because of craving, make them their own, all the one hundred and eight
currents of craving [ AN.4.199
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.199>], are The
construction of love.
　　What is the construction of view? There are twenty bases of view,
the wrongview of ten bases, the marginal, all such views, evil views,
jungle views, desert views view, distorted view, wavering view,
grasping, accepting, clinging to, clinging to, the base of the wrong
way, wrong way, wrong nature, heretical way, grasping, upside-down
(vipariyesa) viparīta), the inversion (vipallāsa) grasp, the evil grasp,
the grasp of what is not real [considered] as real, all come to the
reach of the sixty-two evil views, which are The construction of seeing.
"For them the construction of craving has been abandoned, the
construction of seeing has been abandoned, and the construction of
craving has been abandoned, the construction of seeing has been
abandoned, The construction of craving or the construction of view they
do not construct, do not produce, do not produce, do not produce, do not
produce.” For them they do not build.
　　"No importance" and "attempt", there are two types of emphasis: the
emphasis of [due to] craving and the emphasis of [due to] view...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the emphasis of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the emphasis of view. For them, the value of
craving has been abandoned, the value of seeing has been abandoned, and
in the state that the value of craving has been abandoned, and the value
of seeing has been abandoned, they set (do) Walk without craving or
without vision in front (attention), without craving as a banner,
without craving as a banner, without craving as an increase, without
seeing as a banner, without seeing as a banner, without seeing as an
increase, Walk without being craved or seen. "Because they are not
constructed and valued.
　　"For them the dharmas are not received": "The dharmas are called the
sixty-two bad views. 'To them', to those Arahants, those who have
exhausted their influxes. 'Not received', "The world is eternal, this is
the real thing, and everything else is empty." Not accepted; the world
is very constant... (Abbreviated in the middle) The worldis bounded...
The world is boundless... Fate is Body... life is one body is
another...the Tathagata exists after death...the Tathagata does not
exist after death...the Tathagata exists after death and does not
exist..."The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after death,
this is the real thing, everything else is true. is vain.’ was not
received.” For them the Dhamma was not received either.
　　"Brahmins will not be guided by precepts and prohibitions": "No" is
negative. "Brahman", the excluded state of the seven dharmas is Brahman:
one who has a body viewis excluded... (Abbreviated in the middle) does
not rely on it, such a person can be called a Brahman. "Brahmins will
not be guided by precepts and restraints": "Brahmins will not be guided
by precepts or restraints or by precepts and restraints." For Brahmins
will not be guided by precepts and restraints.
　　"Those who have reached the other shore like that will not turn
back": "'The other shore is called Nirvana, immortality, which is the
cessation of all actions., the cessation of all attachments, the
cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, the cessationof nirvana.
He is the one who has reached the other shore; the one who has reached
the other shore, the one who has reached the ultimate (target); the one
who has reached the ultimate, the one who has reached the end; the one
who has reached the end...the cycle of life and death, without his
rebirth. ' for those who have reached the other shore. "Do not return",
"Any pollution that has been abandoned by the Sudavan Path, he will no
longer experience, not return, and will not return; and if the pollution
is abandoned by the first Dao, he will no longer experience, not return,
and return to the pollution. Do not go back; all the contaminations that
have been abandoned by the way of non-returning will no longer be
experienced, returned, and returned; those contaminations that have been
abandoned by the way of Arahants will no longer be experienced,
returned, or returned. ’ For those who have reached the other shore will
not return. "Those who are like that", Arahants are like those in five
aspects: those who are like that in terms of whether they are satisfied
or dissatisfied; those who have been abandoned are those who are like
that; those who have passed over are those who are like that; The
"liberated one" is like that; that is described as like that.
　　How is an Arahant like that, satisfied or dissatisfied? An arahant
is like that in getting; he is like that in not getting; he is like that
in having a reputation; he is like that in having no reputation; he is
like that in terms of praise like that in rebuke; also like that in
pleasure; like that in suffering, some people's wrists will be smeared
with spices, some people's wrists will work with axes: He has no greed
for being like that; he has no aversion for being like that, he has
given up following greed and aversion, he has overcome victory and
defeat, he has overcome obedience and opposition, and so is an Arahant
who is like that in satisfaction or dissatisfaction.
　　How does an Arahant "abandoned one" be like that? An arahant's
covetousness has been abandoned, spit out, released, abandoned, and
renounced; hatred... (abbreviated in the middle) ignorance... anger...
resentment... hiding evil... domineering... jealousy... stingy...
deceit... cunning ... stubborn ... passion ... slow ... very slow ...
shyness ... lethargy ... all pollution ... all evil deeds ... all
afflictions ... all scorching heat ... all vexations ... all unwholesome
pretensions Abandoned, spit out, released, abandoned, and thought-off,
this is what an arahant "abandoned" is like that.
　　What is an Arahant "passed over" like that? "The storm of Arahant
desire has been passed; some storms have passed; the storm of seeing has
passed; the storm of ignorance has passed; all samsara has passed, has
come out, has passed over, has passed through , has been crossed, has
been overcome, he is the one who has descended, the one who has
practiced the action [, the one who has completed the journey, the one
who has reached the direction], the cycle of birth and death, without
his rebirth. ' Such an Arahant 'passed over' is like that.
　　What is an Arahant "liberated person" like that? The mind of an
arahant has been freed from greed, liberated, and good; the mind has
been freed from hatred, liberated, and good; the mind has been freed
from delusion, liberated, and good; from anger... (omitted) from
hatred... from Hiding evil...from domineering...from jealousy...from
miserliness...from deceit...from cunning...from stubbornness...from
passion...from slowness...from extreme slowness...from humility...from
laziness ...from all defilements ... from all evil deeds ... from all
afflictions ... from all scorching heat ... from all afflictions ... the
mind is freed, freed, freed from all unwholesome fabrications, such is
the Arahant's "liberated one" ' for someone like that.
　　What is an Arahant who is described as like that? An arahant who "is
a man of precepts" is described as being like that; "is a believer in
faith" is described as being like that; The one who is mindful in
mindfulness is described as like that; The one who has three kinds of
knowledge is described as like that; the one who "is the six
supernatural powers in supernatural powers" is described as like that,
and this is the Arahant who is described as like that. "For those who
have reached the other shore like that, they will not return.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"They don't construct, they don't value, and for them all dharmas
are not received. 　　Brahmins
　　　are not guided by precepts and prohibitions. Those who have
reached the other shore like that do not retreat."
completed].


Notes:
　1. Self-esteem he is tied, arguing students.
　2. One should not build views based on the eighth-level supreme
wisdom/five supernatural powers/precepts and prohibitions.
　3. From slow: You should not lead yourself to wait for me to be better
than me.
　4. Those who cut off self-attachment and do not rely on wisdom, do not
join groups, do not return to wrong views, do not cling (hold the
Dharma), do not swear (paṇidhi - aspirations / aspirations) have all
kinds of things.
　12/11/2020 10:40
Notes:
