Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
6. Explanation of the Lao Jing
　　Second , the explanation of the Lao Jing will say:
　　39. This life is indeed small, and it may die in less than a hundred
years.
　　　If anyone lives more than that, then he will die of old age.
　　"This life is indeed little": "'Life' is lifespan, existence,
living, existence, action, rebirth (existence), protection, life, and
the root of life. In addition, life with two factors is little, only
some of: The limited life of existence is less, or the limited life of
nature (self-taste) is less. How is the limited life of existence less?
Lived in the past mind moments, [but] is not alive now , not living in
the future; living in the future in the future mind-moment, [but] not
living now, not living in the past; living now in the present
mind-moment, [but] not living in the past, not living in the future.
　　"Life and individuality, all ( Only) Pleasure and Suffering,
　　　are united by a single mind: capable of turning rapidly in an
instant.
　　　All the heavens exist for 84,000 kalpas,
　　　but neither do they live by the union of the two minds.
　　　Whoever dies or survives here The khandhas are destroyed,
　　　and all that is gone is equally irreversible. There is no
difference in characteristics between
　　　what is destroyed immediately and what is destroyed in the future,
　　　[and] what is destroyed in between.
　　　Not born of what did not happen, he lives by the present
　　　, and the world is destroyed by the heart, settling for the
highest good.
　　　They happen as downward [flowing], are willed to change,
　　　They turn [like] the uncut stream of water, conditioned by the six
senses.
　　　What has been destroyed comes without hoarding, what is not piled
up in the future,
　　　and whatever is arisen they persist like mustard seeds at the tip
of a cone [instant].
　　　For the arising dhammas, the cessation is placed before them, and
　　　the disintegrating dhammas remain without mixing with the previous
ones.
　　　Invisibly they come, from destruction they see and go,
　　　like lightning in the sky, they arise and dissipate. '
　　This means that the limited life that survives is small.
　　How is it that the limited life of nature (self-taste) is few? Life
is the dependence of the out-breath; life is the dependence of the
in-breath; life is the dependence of the in-breath and out-breath;
Dependence on: the root of these is weak; the cause of these is also
weak; those who take them as a condition are also weak; those who use
them as a force are also weak; the common ground (ground) of these is
also weak; the connection of these also weak; these coexisting are also
weak; what is connected with them is weak; these are weak with each
other; these are not with each other; these destroy each other; And
these do not make one another's dwelling; and whatsoever arises is not
found.
　　"No one disappears because of anyone, and these are indeed all
destructions,
　　　these are born from the past, and those who produced them also died
　　　before, and the former and the latter did not see each other. 』
　　This is because the limited life of nature (self-taste) is rare.
　　In addition, comparing the lives of the four great kings and gods,
to humans, life is small, life is insignificant, life is only a little,
life is momentary, life is fast, life is short, life is not long. Yes,
life doesn't live long, the thirty-three-day gods... (middle
abbreviated) Yamo gods... Tusita gods... Huale gods... Hetransforms into
Zizigods...Compared with Brahma gods' lives, they come to people. It is
said that life is small, life is trivial, life is only a little, life is
momentary, life is fast, life is short, life is not long, life is short
lived.
　　This was said by the Blessed One:
　　"Monks! The lifespan of human beings is short, and there will be an
afterlife. A wise person should wake up, do good deeds, and practice the
holy life. All living are dead, monks! Whoever lives longer, he has a
hundred years or more. "
　　Man's lifespan is short, and good men should despise it, and
　　　should live like a burning head, [because] he who does not die
will not come." [ SN.4.9
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=4.9>] As
　　　the days and nights pass, life is destroyed, and the lifespan of
those who
　　　 inevitably dieis exhausted, like water in a small river. [
SN.4.10 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=4.10>]”” for this
life is indeed very little.
　　"Maybe he will die in less than a hundred years": "In the
condensation [ SN.10.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=10.1>] When they die,
they die, they die, and they are destroyed; when they are in cells, they
die, they die, they die, they are destroyed, they are destroyed; they
also die when they are sliced, they die, they die, they are destroyed,
they are destroyed; they also die when they are hardened. , death,
annihilation, and destruction; in limbs, also dead, dead, annihilated,
destroyed; just born also dead, dead, annihilated, destroyed; in the
delivery room also dead, dead, annihilated, Destroyed; half a month old
is also dead, dead, destroyed, destroyed; one month old is also dead,
dead, destroyed, destroyed; two month old also... (Abbreviated) three
months... ...the four-month old...the five-month old also died, died,
perished, destroyed; the six-month old...the seven-month old also...the
eight-month old...the nine-month old also ... ten months ... one year is
dead, dead, destroyed, destroyed ... two years ... three years ... four
years ... five years ... six Years...seven years...eight years...nine
years...ten years...twenty years...30 years...forty years... Fifty
years... sixty years... seventy years... eighty years... ninety years
are dead, dead, destroyed, destroyed. "For perhaps less than a hundred
years to die.
　　"Whoever lives more than one hundred years": "Whoever lives more
than a hundred years, he will live one year, or two years, or three
years, or four years, or five years... (abridged) or ten years, or Live
twenty years, or thirty years, or forty years." For whoever lives more
than that. "Then he died of old age": when he was old, old, old, old,
decrepit, tooth-broken, white-haired, bald, wrinkled, limber Spotted,
crooked, crooked, crutched, he died of old age, died, annihilated,
destroyed, and did not escape from death.
　　"For a ripe fruit, there is the horror of falling in the morning,
　　　so for those who are born and die, there is always the horror of
death.
　　　It is also like a potter, the pottery he makes,
　　　everything will eventually be destroyed. The life of the mortal
[also] is like this.
　　　The young and the old, the foolish and the wise,
　　　All forces that go to death, all are where death is (belonging to
death).
　　　For those who are defeated by death, it is from here to the
afterlife, where a
　　　father cannot shelter his son, or kin to kin.
　　　Even those who watch their relatives, those who see the weeping
tears, those who
　　　inevitably die, such as cattle to be slaughtered, are guided.
　　　The world is like this, tormented by death and old age,
　　[so the wise do not grieve, after knowing the truth of the world.
Sn.3.8, 581-586 verses]"
　　for that time he died of old age.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"This life is indeed small, perhaps less than a hundred years before
he dies, and
　　　whoever lives more than that, then he dies of old age."
　　40. People grieve at being regarded as themselves, because There is
no permanent possession,
　　　there is separation here, and you should not live at home after
seeing it like this.
　　"People grieve at what is considered themselves": "'people' are
Kshatriyas, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and
people. There are two kinds of 'I'm attached to' Attachment: [Because
of] craving for me and [because of] seeing my attachment... (Middle
abbreviated) This is my craving attachment... (Middle abbreviation) This
is seeing my attachment. Being treated as oneself They grieve when their
fears are robbed, they grieve when they are robbed, and they grieve when
they have been robbed; they grieve when their fears change, they grieve
when they change, and they grieve when they change Also sad, weary,
weeping, beating breasts and weeping, and come to confusion." Sorrow for
people in being regarded as themselves.
　　"Because there are no permanent possessions": "There are two kinds
of possessions: [because of] cravings and [cause] seeing... (Middle)
This is the craving... (Middle) This is the possession of seeing. The
possessions of craving are impermanent, conditioned, born of conditions,
cessation, dissipation, fading, cessation, transformation, and the
possessions seen are also impermanent, existing The purpose and the
condition are the cessation of the dharma, the disappearance of the
dharma, the disappearance of the dharma, the cessation of the dharma,
and the transformational dharma. This is said by the World Honored One:
"Monks! Is it something that will live forever like that?"
"World-Honored One! It's really not." "Monks! Good! Like that which is
permanently abiding. [ MN.22
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=22>] 'Permanent, sturdy,
eternal, immutable possessions, they do not exist, they do not exist,
they are not known, they are not obtained." Because because There are no
constant possessions.
　　"Here there is separation": "Separation (becoming various),
separation (being separation), separation (being variation) exists, is
known, and is attained. This is said by the Blessed One: 'Enough,
Ananda! Do not mourn , don't weep, Ananda! That was told beforehand by
me, wasn't it: separation, separation, separation from all that is loved
and desired. Don’t destroy the law of decree, purpose, or corruption.”
This is impossible! [ DN.16
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=16>]' belongs to the
former khandhas, realms, and bases, which change and change; the latter
khandhas, realms, and bases arise. "Because there is separation here.
　　"You should not live at home after seeing like this": "'Like this',
the continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the
perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of
words; this is the order of sentences, for 'like this' "After seeing,
seeing, measuring, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying on my
attachments like this." After seeing like this. "Should not live at
home", cut off all obstacles to home. After cutting off the obstacles of
children and wives, after cutting off the obstacles of relatives, after
cutting off the obstacles of friends, after cutting off the obstacles of
storage, after shaving off the hair and beard, after wrapping the robes,
from the home, become a monk. After the home,you should walk, live, act,
turn around, guard, keep, and survive.” After seeing this, you should
not live at home.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"People grieve at being regarded as their own, because there is no
permanent possession, and
　　　here there is separation, and after seeing it like this one should
not dwell at home."
　　41. That too is abandoned by death: mortals Thinking "this is mine",
　　　after the wise man knows this, the believer should not bend to
what I hold. "That is also abandoned by death": "Death", in all living
beings, the root of life is cut off
　　due to the passing, perishing, disintegration, disappearance, death,
end of life, disintegration of the aggregates, and abandonment of the
corpse of every kind of living beings . "That" refers to things like
form, feelings, perceptions, formations, and consciousness. "Abandoned",
abandoned, vanished (abandoned), left (abandoned), destroyed, destroyed.
It is also said: 　　"Just as before those who gave up their possessions
were mortal, and those who were mortal afterward gave up those,

　　　The possessions of the seeker of desire are very constant, so I do
not grieve when I am sad.
　　　The moon increases, fills, disappears, the sun moves and goes into
annihilation (Thai version),
　　　the mundane laws of the enemy are known to me, so I do not grieve
when I am sad. "[Jat.5.1,2,3 verses]
　　for that too was given up by death. "Ordinary people think 'this is
mine'": "'Ordinary' refers to things like form, feelings, thoughts,
actions, and consciousness. 'People' are names, titles, Anritsu, common
name, name, naming, appellation, words, phrases, appellation. "Think
"this is mine", from the craving one thinks he thinks; from the seeing
one thinks he thinks; from the slow one thinks he thinks; Those who are
polluted think he thinks; those who do evil think he thinks; those who
work hard (additional actions) think he thinks; those who take
retribution think he thinks. ' for mortals who think 'this is mine'.
　　"After the wise and wise know this": "This is the fault of my
attachment, after he knows, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. The wise man, the wise
man, the wise man, the wise man, The enlightened, the wise, the wise,
and the wise know this." For the wise and wise know this.
　　"A believer should not bend to what I am attached to": "I am
attached to it", there are two kinds of attachments to myself: the
attachment of [because of] craving and the attachment of [because] of
seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is My attachment to
craving... (Abbreviated) This is my attachment to seeing. "A believer"
is a believer of the Buddha, the believer of the Dharma, and the
believer of the Sangha. He regards the Buddha as his own, and that
person holds the World-Honored One tightly. This was said by the Blessed
One: "Bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus who are deceitful, stubborn, talkative,
hypocritical, arrogant, and uncertain are not my [desired] bhikkhus for
me, bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus have already obeyed this law and
discipline. Leave, they will not come to growth, growth, and fullness in
this dharma and discipline. Bhikkhus! But those bhikkhus who are not
deceitful, not vain, sturdy, not stubborn, and who are good and
determined, are my [willingly] to me. ] of the monks, monks! Those monks
have not departed from this dharma, they have come to grow, grow, and
become full in this
　　dharma.
　　　They do not grow in the Dharma taught by the Universally
Enlightened One , they
　　　are not deceitful, they are not talkative, they are firm, they are
not stubborn, and they are good at attaining tranquility.
　　　They grow in the Dharma taught by the Universally Enlightened One.
"[ AN.4.26 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.26>]
　　"A believer should not bend to what I am attached to": "The believer
should not bend to what he is attached to after he has given up what he
is craving for, and what he is holding about to see." , should not be
bent down, not forward, not towards that, not leaning towards that, not
aiming for that, not increasing up." The believer should not bend toward
what I want execute.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"That is also abandoned by death, and mortals think 'this is mine'.
After the wise and
　　　wise know this, the believer should not bend to what I am attached
to."
　　42. As meeting in a dream , those who are awake cannot see,
　　　those who are loved like this: the deceased, the dead, he cannot see.
　　"As the [things] meet in a dream": "What meets, what comes together,
what is set, what is assembled." It is the [things] that meet in a
dream. "Those who are awake cannot see": "Those who come to a dream see
the moon, the sun, the sea, the king of Mount Sumeru, elephants, horses,
carriages, infantry, army formations, and pleasant sights. Gardens,
pleasant forests... (Middle omitted) pleasant land... Seeing pleasant
lotus ponds, the awake cannot see anything." The awake cannot see.
　　"Love like this": "The arrangement 'like this' is a metaphor. A
'beloved' is a cherished person: a mother, or a father, or a brother, or
a sister, or a son, or a daughter, or a friend, Or a colleague, or a
relative, or a blood relative." For loved ones like this.
　　"The deceased, the dead, he cannot see": "The deceased is called the
dead, and the dead he cannot see, cannot see, cannot obtain, cannot
find, cannot obtain." For the deceased , He cannot see the dead.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"As in [things] that meet in a dream, those who are awake cannot
see, and
　　　those who are loved like this: the deceased, the dead, he cannot
see."
　　43. Even if those people are seen To be heard, to whom this name is
said,
　　　only the name remains: to the deceased.
　　"Even if those people are seen and heard": "'Seeing' is born of
eye-consciousness. 'Hearing' is born of ear-consciousness. 'Those
people' are Kshatriya, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudhas Luo, lay people,
monks, gods, people." Even if those people are seen and heard.
　　"Everything to them this name is said": "'Everything is to them,' to
Kshatriya, to Brahmins, to Vaisha, to Sudras, to laypeople For monks,
for gods, for people. "Name" is name, common name, Anritsu, idiom, name,
naming, appellation, words, phrases, and appellation. "Said", being
called, spoken, told, spoken, explained, spoken." For all to them the
name was spoken.
　　"Only names are left to be spoken": "Things like form, feeling,
perception, volition, consciousness, etc. are discarded, vanished
(abandoned), left (abandoned) Abandoned), destroyed, destroyed. "Can be
said", can be said, can be told, can be talked about, can be explained,
can be said." Because only the name can be said. "To the deceased": "'To
the deceased', to the dead, to the dead. The individual, the life, the
one born, the sentient being, the one born of Indra, the one born of
Manu." For the deceased.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Even if those people are seen and heard, to whom this name is spoken,
　　　only the name remains: to the deceased."
　　44. Those who are greedy for my attachment, they do not give up
Sorrow, sadness, and stinginess,
　　　so Munis, safe seers, they abandon their possessions and move on
(wandering).
　　"Those who are greedy in my attachments do not give up sorrow,
sorrow, and stinginess": "Sorrow is touched by the misfortune of
relatives, or the misfortune (loss) of property, or the misfortune of
disease, or The unfortunate (loss) touch of precepts, or the unfortunate
touch of seeing, possessing (encountering) certain misfortunes, those
who come into contact with certain dharmas have sorrows, sorrows, states
of sorrow, internal sorrows, internal universal sorrows, internal
sorrows Burning, internal burning, heart burning, worry, worry arrows.
"Sorrow", touched by the misfortune of relatives... (middle
abbreviation) or the misfortune of seeing, those who have some
misfortunes and contact some bitter methods There are states of
lamentation, lamentation, weeping, weeping, state of lamentation, state
of lamentation, speech, unhelpful words, muttering, weeping, weeping,
weeping. "Misery", there are five kinds of miserliness: [right] abode
The stingy of the family, the stingy of the family, the stingy of the
gain, the stingy of the praise, the stingy of the Dharma, any kind of
stingy like this, the stingy appearance, the stingy state, the greedy
state, the stingy, the stingy, the tight-minded state, this is called
the stingy. Besides, Being stingy is also being stingy; being stingy in
the world is also being stingy; being stingy in handling is also an
obsession with being stingy, which is called stinginess. Covetousness is
called craving, which is greed, greed (complete greed)... "I am attached
to", there are two kinds of self-attachment: [because of] my attachment
to craving and [because of] my attachment to seeing... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the self-attachment of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is my attachment to seeing. When they are taken as
their own, they are worried when they are afraid of being robbed, they
are also sad when they are robbed, they are also sad when they have been
robbed; They grieve when they are changed, and they grieve when they are
changed. They weep when they are taken as their own, and they weep when
they are robbed, they weep when they are robbed, they weep when they are
robbed; When things change, they weep, they weep when they change, and
they weep when they have changed. Being treated as their own things they
guard, protect, take (hold), cherish (as their own), and be stingy. They
did not give up the grief of things that were regarded as their own,
they did not give up when they wept, they did not give up on greed, they
did not give up on greed, they did not give up, they did not drive away,
they did not end, and they did not make it to non-existence.” Those who
are greedy in my attachments, they do not give up sorrow, sorrow, and
stinginess.
　　"Therefore Muni, the secure seers, they abandon their possessions
and then walk (wandering)": "'Therefore', 'Therefore,' that reason, that
reason, that condition, that reason, should see this transgression in
desires The time of trouble." For this reason. "Muni", Munais called
wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and understanding... (abbreviated in
the middle) without delusion, choosing the Dharma, right view,
possessing that wisdom is Muni, reaching Muna. There are three kinds of
muni actions (perfect virtues): body muni actions, speech muni actions,
and mind muni actions. ... (Abbreviated in the middle) After
transcending and dyeing the net, he is Muni. "Properties", there are two
kinds of possessions: [because of] the possessions of craving and
[because of] the possessions seen... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the possessions of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the
possessions of seeing . After the Muni forever abandons the possessions
of craving; after the possessions of renunciation; after they give up,
after abandoning, after expelling, after making an end, after making
them go to non-existence, walking, staying, moving, turning, Guard, keep
alive, keep alive. "Seekers of peace", seers of safety, seers of rescue,
seers of refuge, seers of refuge, seers without terror, seers without
death, seers of immortality, seers of nirvana By. "For the sake of Muni,
the secure seers, they gave up their possessions and walked (Wandering).
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said,
　　"Those who are greedy in my attachments have not given up their
sorrows, sorrows, and stingy. Therefore, Munis,
　　　those who are secure and secure, they abandon their possessions
and walk (Wandering)."
　　45. When monks practice Away, close to the far seat,
　　　they said it was appropriate forhim: he would not make his
dwelling visible.
　　"When a bhikkhu walks away": "Those who walk away are called the
seven kinds of learning., the Arahant is the one who is far away. For
what reason are those who practice abstinence called the seven kinds of
learning? From here and there those minds who keep away, who avoid, who
reverse, who suppress, who inhibit, who prevent, who protect, who
protect, who walk, move, stay, act, turn, protect, perpetuate,
perpetuate: On the eye door, those who stay away, those who avoid, those
who reverse, those who suppress, those who suppress, those who prevent,
those who protect, those who protect, who walk, move, stay, act, turn,
protect, perpetuate, survive... ... (abbreviated in the middle); on the
nose door... on the tongue door... on the body door... on the mind on
the door, those who stay away, those who avoid, those who reverse, those
who suppress, those who suppress, those who prevent, Guardian, protector
they walk, walk, stay, act, turn, guard, perpetuate, perpetuate, like
chicken feathers or tendons are thrown into the fire, it moves away
(withdraws), avoids (withdraws), reverses, is not stretched [ AN.7.49
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.49>]. In the same way,
from here and there those who keep away, avoid, reverse, restrain,
restrain, prevent, guard, protect, they walk, move, stay, act, turn,
guard, perpetuate, Enabling survival: on the eye door... (middle) on the
ear door... on the nose... on the tongue... on the body... on the mind
door, those who stay away, those who avoid, Inverter, restrainer,
restrainer, preventer, guardian, protector they walk, walk, stay, act,
turn, guard, perpetuate, perpetuate, like a chicken feather or tendon
thrown into the fire, it keeps away (withdrawing), avoiding
(withdrawing), reversing, not being stretched. Those who practice
abstinence for this reason are called the seven kinds of learning.
"Being a monk" means being a good ordinary monk, or a monk who has
studied. "For when the monks walk away.
　　"When approaching a seat that is far away": "The place where they
sit is called a seat: bed, chair, cushion, small cushion, leather
cushion, straw cushion, leaf cushion, straw cushion. That seat,
inappropriate shape Seeing is dismissed, isolated, distanced; hearing of
inappropriate sounds is dismissed, isolated, distanced; smelling of
inappropriate smells...taste of inappropriate flavors...inappropriate
touching...inappropriate The five desires are discarded, isolated, and
distant, and the one that is far away from the seat is close to,
completely close to, clinging to, bent toward clinging, completely
clinging, and facing toward clinging." When it is close to the far away
seat.
　　"They said it was proper for him: he would not make his dwelling
visible": "appropriate", there are three kinds of proper: corporate
proper, legal proper, and no longer proper. What is Group Appropriate?
"If many bhikkhus are reconciled, reconciled, free of contention, and
mingled with each other, they abide with each other with kind eyes."
This is appropriate for a group. What is the law appropriate? Four
mindfulness, four right effort, four spiritual feet, five faculties,
five powers, seven factors of enlightenment, and eight noble paths, they
all leap into, gain pure faith, abide, and liberation. This is legal.
What is no longer appropriate for regeneration? Even if many bhikkhus
pass Nirvana in the Realm of Nirvana without Remaining , it is not
appropriate for the Realm of Nirvana without Remaining to be seen as
insufficient or full [ AN.8.19 ].
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=8.19>"Abode", for those
who have fallen into hell, there is a dwelling in hell; for those in the
realm of animals, there is a dwelling in the realm of animals; for those
in the realm of hungry ghosts, there is a dwelling in the realm of
hungry ghosts; for human beings, there is a dwelling in the world of
humans; Heaven's world dwelling. "They said it was fitting for him: he
would not make his dwelling visible": "It was fitting for him; it was
fitting; it was proportionate; it was commensurate; It is obedient:
those who live in the hidden hell like this will not be seen; those in
the animal world will not be seen; those in the realm of hungry ghosts
will not be seen; those in the world of humans will not be seen be seen;
in the world of heaven their own will not be seen, they say so, tell so,
speak so, explain so, speak so." For them to say it was fitting for him:
he would not make his own The residence was seen.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"When a bhikkhu walks away and approaches a seat that is far away,
　　　they say it is appropriate for him: he will not make his abode
visible."
　　46. Muni is the source of everything. Stop: Do not do what is lovely
or unlovable,
　　　weeping and stingy are on him, like water on a leaf that does not
stain.
　　"Muni is the one who does not depend on everything": "Everything is
called the twelve bases: eye and form, ear and sound, nose and smell,
tongue and taste, body and touch, mind and Dhamma. 'Muni' , Muna is
called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending and
dyeing the net, he is Muni. "Those who do not rely on", there are two
kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving and the dependence of
view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is It is the dependence of
craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the dependence of seeing.
After Munisha has cut off the dependence of craving; The non-dependence
of the tongue; the non-dependence of the body; the non-dependence of the
mind; the forms...the sounds...the smells...the tastes...the
touches...the dharmas...the home... ...group
(congregation)...house...profit...reputation...praise...pleasure...clothing...food...housing...the patient needs things, medical necessities...the realm of desire...the realm of form...the realm of formlessness... ... desire to have... form... formless... desire... no desire... non-thought non-non-desire... one aggregate... four aggregates... five aggregates... past... future... Now...what you see, hear, feel, know...all dharmas are not dependent, not attached, not stuck, not attached, not focused on (overcoming), have been released, have left , has been liberated, has been freed from bondage, he lives with a mind free from being restricted." Muni is the one who does not depend on everything.
　　"Neither the lovely nor the unlovable": "Lovely", there are two
kinds of lovely: living beings or formations. What are lovely beings?
Here, whoever they are to him who desires to benefit, or who desires
profit, or who desires the yoke to be secure, is mother, or father, or
brother, or sister, or son, or daughter, or friend, or colleague, or
kin, or Those who are related by blood, these are lovely beings. What
are lovely things? The desirable forms, the desirable sounds, the
desirable smells, the desirable tastes, the desirable touches, these are
the lovely formations. "Unlovable", there are two kinds of unlovable:
living beings or formations. What are unlovable beings? Here, whoever
they think is not beneficial to him, who is not profitable, who is not
yoke-free, and who is trying to kill him, these are unlovable beings.
What are the unlovable actions? Unpleasant forms, unpleasant sounds,
unpleasant smells, unpleasant tastes, unpleasant touches, these are
unlovable actions. "Do nothing lovely or unlovable": "'These are my
lovely beings; these are agreeable actions.' Don't do lovely things out
of greed. 'These are my unlovable beings; these are unpleasant' All
formations.' Do not do anything unlovable out of aversion; do not make
it come into being, do not make it produce, do not make it arise, do not
make it come forth." Do not do what is lovely or unlovable.
　　"Weeping and stinginess are in him, as water does not stain on a
leaf": "'in him', in that man; in the Arahant whose infallibility has
been exhausted. 'Weeping', touched by the misfortune of a kin, or by the
loss of property , or the loss (unfortunate) touch of disease, or the
loss (loss) of precept The state of sighing, the state of weeping, the
state of speech, unhelpful words, muttering, weeping, weeping, weeping.
There are five kinds of stinginess: [to] stingy at home, stingy at home,
stingy in gain, stingy in praise, and stingy in Dharma. The grip of the
mind is called stinginess. In addition, accumulating stinginess is also
stingy; being stingy in the world is also stingy; dealing with
stinginess is also the attachment to stinginess, which is called stingy.
　　"Like water on the leaves is not stained", the leaves are called
lotus leaves, and the water (Vāri) is called water (udakaṃ). Those who
are not infected, those who are not polluted. In the same way, in that
person, in an Arahant whose influxes have been exhausted, weeping and
stinginess are not contaminated, not strongly contaminated, not closely
related, no longer contaminated, not strongly contaminated, not closely
related. That person; an arahant with [in?] those contaminations that
are not contaminated, not strongly contaminated, not closely
contaminated, no longer contaminated, no longer strongly contaminated,
no longer closely contaminated. Released, departed, liberated, freed
from bondage, he abides with a mind free from limitations. ' For weeping
and saving in him, as water does not stain on a leaf.
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said:
　　"The Muni is the one who does not depend on everything: he does not
do what is lovely or unlovable,
　　　weeping and stinginess are on him, like water on a leaf that is
not stained."
　　47. Also like water droplets on a lotus leaf, like water No
contamination on the red lotus,
　　　like this Muni is not strong in contamination, that is: in what
you see, hear, and feel.
　　"It is also like a drop of water on a lotus leaf": "A drop of water
is called a drop of water, and a lotus leaf (Pokkharaṃ) is called a
lotus leaf (padumapattaṃ). Not strongly stained, not tightly stained."
Wei is also like water droplets on a lotus leaf. "Like water on a red
lotus, it is not stained": "The red lotus is called red lotus, and the
water (Vāri) is called water (udakaṃ). No more strong contamination, no
more close contamination." It is like water on a red lotus that is not
contaminated.
　　"Like this Muni is not strongly contaminated, that is: in what you
see, hear and feel": "'Like this' is a metaphorical arrangement. 'Muni',
Muni is called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) beyond the net of
dyeing Later he was Muni. "Adhesion", there are two kinds of clinging:
the clinging of [due to] craving and the clinging of [due to] seeing...
(the middle abbreviated) this is the clinging of craving... (the middle
abbreviated) This is the attachment to seeing. After Munisha breaks the
attachment to craving, and the attachment to seeing, he becomes
untainted with what he sees; untainted with what he smells; untainted
with what he perceives; Uncontaminated, not strongly contaminated, not
closely contaminated, no longer contaminated, no longer strongly
contaminated, no longer closely contaminated. Leaving, disengaged,
liberated, freed from bondage, he lives with a mind free from
limitations. "In order for Muni like this to not be strongly
contaminated, that is, in what he sees, hears, and feels.
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said, "It is also like a drop
of water on a lotus leaf, and like water
　　on a red lotus, it is not stained, so
　　　Muni is not strongly stained, that is, in what he sees, hears, and
feels.
　　" , that is: in what you see, hear, and feel, 　　　do not want to
be purified by other things, because he is not defiled, not defiled.
　　"Because the one who cleans in that way does not think about it,
that is, on what he sees, hears, and feels": ""cleansing", cleansing is
called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and understanding...
(abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing the law, Right
view, for what reason is it called wisdom? With that wisdom, the body
and evil deeds are shaken off, washed away, completely washed away, and
washed away (washed); the evil deeds of speech... (abbreviated) The evil
deeds are shaken off , cleansed, completely cleansed, from cleansed;
greed was shaken off, cleansed, completely cleansed, from cleansed;
hatred...delusion...anger...resentment...hiding
evil...tyrannical...jealousy... stinginess... deceit... cunning...
stubbornness... passion... slowness... extreme slowness... laziness...
laxity... all pollution... all evil deeds... all troubles... all
burns... all Hot and vexed...all unwholesome deeds are shaken off,
washed away, completely washed away, washed away, and washing away for
this reason is called wisdom.


　　In addition, wrong views are shaken off, washed, completely washed,
and washed away by right views; wrong thoughts are shaken off, washed,
completely washed, and washed away by right intentions; wrong speech is
shaken off by right speech... Wrong karma is righteous. Karma is shaken
off... Evil life is shaken off by righteous life... Evil energy is
shaken by right effort... Evil thoughts are shaken off by righteous
thoughts... Evil meditation is shaken off by right concentration... Evil
wisdom is shaken by right wisdom... Evil liberation is shaken by
righteousness Shake off, wash off, wash completely, wash away.
　　In addition, all pollution, all evil deeds, all afflictions, all
burning heat, all ardent afflictions, all unwholesome fabrications are
shaken off, cleansed, completely cleansed, and free from cleansing by
the Eightfold Path, which Arahants possess, possess, reach, Fully
attained, complete, fully equipped, possessed of these dhammas that can
cleanse, therefore, the Arahant is the one who cleanses, one who shakes
off greed, one who shakes off evil, one who shakes off defilement, and
one who shakes off anger. ' for the cleansers.
　　"Because in that way those who cleanse do not think about what they
see, what they hear, and what they perceive": "Those who cleanse do not
think about what they see, do not think about what they see, do not
think from what they see, do not think about 'what they see is mine'.
What you hear, don't think about what you hear, don't think from what
you hear, don't think about "what you hear is mine." Mine'. Do not think
about what you know, do not think on what you know, do not think from
what you know, do not think "what you know is mine" [ SN.35.30
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.30>]. This is said by
the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus! "I am" , this is contemplation; "I am this"
is contemplation; "I shall be" is contemplation; "I shall not be" is
contemplation; "I shall be colored" is contemplation; "I shall be" "I
shall be a formless one", this is thinking; "I shall be a thinking
person", this is thinking; "I shall be a non-thinking one", this is
thinking; "I shall be a non-thinking non-non-thinking", this is
thinking. Bhikkhus! Thinking is a disease, thinking is a tumor, thinking
is an arrow, thinking is a scourge. Bhikkhus! Therefore, here, "we shall
dwell (live) with a mindless mind." Bhikkhus! You should be taught this
way. '[ SN.35.248
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.248>]' is because the
one who is cleansed in that way does not think, that is: in what he
sees, hears, and feels.
　　"Do not want to be purified by other things": "Those who are
cleansed do not want, do not receive, do not hope, do not desire, do not
ask for other things: the way of impurity, the traces of the wrong way,
the way out of nowhere, and the Apart from mindfulness, in addition to
right effort, in addition to divine feet, in addition to faculties, in
addition to power, in addition to enlightenment factors, in addition to
the Eightfold Path, there is purity, purity, and universal purity.
detachment, emancipation, universal detachment." In order not to seek
purification from other things.
　　"Because he is neither defiled nor detained": "All ignorant ordinary
people are defiled, good ordinary beings, including the seven kinds of
learning, are defiled, and Arahants are neither defiled nor defiled:
already defiled and defiled The person who has eliminated greed becomes
the state of renunciation; with the elimination of hatred, he has become
the state of renunciation; with the elimination of delusion, he has
become the state of renunciation of delusion. ) The reincarnation of
birth, old age and death, without his rebirth.” Because he is not
defiled, not detained.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"Because the one who purifies in that way does not think about it,
that is, in what he sees, hears, and feels,
　　　he does not want to purify in any other way, because he is neither
defiled nor defiled.
　　" Six [COMPLETED].


Notes:
　1. People grieve over "mine" because there is no permanent possession
+ that is also abandoned by death.
　2. Muni does not depend on the unlovable, and is not contaminated with
weeping and miserliness. He is not infected, not infected.
　12/11/2020 11:00
