Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
7. Explanation of Maitreya Sutra
　　Next , the Explanation of Maitreya Sutra will say:
　　49. [Such as Venerable Maitreya Maitreya:] Those who engage in lust,
dear sir! Speak your annoyance, and
　　　after hearing your teachings, we will learn to stay away.
　　"Those who engage in lust": Names of those who are illegal, filthy
(village), vile, gross, washed with water after love (by the water),
secret, one-to-one, etc. [ AN.7.50
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.50>] For the law of
lust. For what reason is it called the law of lust? " Belonging to two
people's greed, greed, full of lust (flow), entangled, the mind is
all-encompassed, two people the same Dharma." For that reason it is
called the law of lust. For example, if there are two quarrels, they are
called "prostitutes"; if there are two contestants, they are called
"prostitutes"; if there are two discussants, they are called
"prostitutes"; They are called "prostitutes"; there are two accusers,
they are called "prostitutes"; there are two discussants, they are
called "prostitutes"; there are two interlocutors, they are Known as
"prostitutes". In the same way, "belonging to two people who are greedy,
greedy, full of lust (flowing), entangled, whose mind is
all-encompassed, and both have the same dharma." For that reason it is
called lustful dharma.
　　"Those who engage in lust": "Those who are yoked on the law of lust,
those who are strongly yoked, those who turn towards the yoke, those who
are fully yoke, those who practice that, those who repeatedly go to
that, those who are heavy, those who lean towards that, slopes To that
one, leaning to that one, to that one, to that one who increases." For
those who engage in lust.
　　"[Like this, Venerable Maitreya]": "'Like this', the continuation of
sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences; the
combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, for 'like this' "Venerable", this is the language of love,
honor, respectful, and obedient, and is called "the Venerable."
Appellation, words, phrases, title. "Maitreya", the surname, name,
title, Anli, common name of that Highness." It is [Such Venerable
Maitreya].
　　"Dear sir! Please speak of annoyance": "'Annoyed', annoyed, hurt,
oppressed, hit, calamity, calamity. Please speak, please explain, please
teach, please inform, please establish , please uncover, please parse,
please clarify, please explain. "Dear sir", "This is a language of love,
honorific, respectful, and obedient." For dear sir." For dear gentlemen!
Please say annoyed.
　　"After hearing your teachings": "Your words, language, teachings,
teachings, after listening, after hearing, after grasping, after
understanding, after discerning." After hearing your teachings.
　　"We will learn on distance": "away", there are three kinds of
distance: physical distance, mental distance, and dependentdistance.
What is being away from? Here, a bhikkhu is close to the abodes where he
lives alone: ​​forest fields, under trees, mountains, caves, caves,
cemeteries, forests, open fields, haystacks, living in remote places
with his body, walking alone, standing alone, sitting alone, lying down
alone, alone foralms-giving Entering the village, returning alone,
sitting alone in awalking alone, walking alone, dwelling, moving,
turning up, guarding, making existence, making existence, this is the
separation of the body.
　　What is Heart Away? Those who have entered the first jhāna have
their minds far away from the cover; those who have entered the second
jhāna have their hearts far away from all searchers; those who have
entered the third jhāna have their hearts far away from joy; those who
have entered the fourth jhāna have their hearts separated from pleasure
and suffering. Far away, the mind of those who entered the boundless
space has been separated from the thoughts of form, opposite thoughts,
and various thoughts; the mind of those who entered the boundless place
of consciousness has been separated from the boundless place of
consciousness; Far away, the mind of those who have entered into a place
of non-thinking and non-non-ideal thinking has gone away from the place
of nothingness, the mind of the Sudakaview , doubt, precepts, seeing the
latent tendency of afflictions, the latent tendencyof doubtful
afflictions, and the same. The pollution of existence is far away, and
the mind of the one who comes has been separated from the gross
attachment of lust, greed, and aversion, from the potential tendency of
gross desire, greed, and defilement, and the potential tendency of the
defilement of aversion, as well as the pollution that coexists with it.
The residual attachments of lust and greed, the attachments of aversion,
from the remaining potential tendencies of lust, greed and defilements,
the potential tendencies of aversion and defilements, and the
contamination that coexist with them, the mind of an arahant has been
freed from lust for lust, greed for immateriality, arrogance, apathy,
ignorance, and ignorance . The latent tendency of afflictions, the
latent tendencyof greed afflictions, the latent tendencyof ignorance
afflictions, and the contamination that coexists with them are alienated
from the outside and everything. This is mind renunciation.
　　What is clinging to distance? According to what is called
defilements and khandhas and fabrications; according to abstinence is
called immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of all actions, the
renunciation ofall dependence , the cessation of craving, the cessation
of craving, the cessation of nirvana ,and the cessation of nirvana. The
separation of the body belongs to the continuous separation of the body
and the desire to be free from the desires; the separation of the mind
belongs to the purity of the mind and the highest purity; "We shall
learn by distance": the learnedthe altar . Furthermore, it is said from
the teachings of the Dhamma, the hearers of the teachings of the Dhamma.
For "We will learn on distance". 　　Because of that, His Holiness
Maitreya said: 　　"[Such as the Venerable Maitreya:] Those who engage
in lust, dear sir! Please be annoyed. 　　　After hearing your
teachings, we will learn to stay away." 　　50 [ World-Honored One:
"Maitreya!"] It is unholy to him who engages in lust, or even forgets
the teaching and 　　　acts wrongly. 　　"People who engage in lust":
Those who are illegal, filthy (village law), vile, gross, washed with
water after love (by the water), secret, and one-to-one are called
lustful methods. For what reason is it called the law of lust?
"Belonging to two people's greed, greed, full of lust (flow), entangled,
the mind is all-encompassed, two people the same Dharma." For that
reason it is called the law of lust. For example, if there are two
quarrels, they are called "prostitutes"; if there are two contestants,
they are called "prostitutes"; if there are two discussants, they are
called "prostitutes"; They are called "prostitutes"; there are two
accusers, they are called "prostitutes"; there are two discussants, they
are called "prostitutes"; there are two interlocutors, they are Known as
"prostitutes". In the same way, "belonging to two people who are greedy,
greedy, full of lust (flowing), entangled, whose mind is
all-encompassed, and both have the same dharma." For that reason it is
called lustful dharma.






　　"Those who engage in lust": "Those who are yoked on the law of lust,
those who are strongly yoked, those who turn towards the yoke, those who
are fully yoke, those who practice that, those who repeatedly go to
that, those who are heavy, those who lean towards that, slopes To that
one, leaning to that one, to that one, to that one who increases." For
those who engage in lust.
　　"'Maitreya': The World-Honored One addresses the Highness by his
surname. 'World-Honored One', a synonym for respect. In addition, "the
one who has destroyed greed" is the World-Honored One; "the one who has
destroyed hatred" is the World-Honored One; "The one who has destroyed
the slowness" is the World Honored One; "the one who has destroyed the
sight" is the World Honored One; "the one who has destroyed the thorns"
is the World HonoredOne; "The one who has finished" is the World Honored
One; "the one who has practiced the body, the precepts, the mind has
been practiced, and the wisdom has been practiced" is the World Honored
One; or "The World Honored One is close to the forests, wild forests,
and border dwellings (recumbent places): keep your voice low. The
Blessed One is the one who is quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of
others, who lives alone, and is suitable for sitting alone”; or “The
Blessed One is the one who is involved in clothing, food, shelter,
necessities for the sick, and medical necessities” for the Blessed One;
or “ The World-Honored One is a partaker of the taste of righteousness,
the taste of Dharma, the taste of liberation, the improvement of
morality, the improvement of mind, and the improvement of wisdom." For
the World Honored One; or "The World Honored One is the one who has
attained the eight liberations, the eight supreme places, the ninth
abode, etc." for the World Honored; The one who has attained is the
World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is a participator of the
four mindfulness, the four right efforts, the four spiritual feet, the
five faculties, the five powers, the seven factors of enlightenment, and
the eight noble paths" is the World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored
One" The one who is a partaker of the ten Tathagata powers, the four
fearlessness, the four unhindered solutions, the six supernatural
powers, and the six enlightened methods” is the World Honored One.
“World Honored One”, this name was not given (made) by the mother; not
by the father; not by the brother What was given; not from sisters; not
from friends; not from relatives; not from ascetic and brahmins; not
from gods, this is the ultimate liberation of the Buddha and the
World-Honored One: under the Bodhi tree together with everything Anli
(pseudonym) who has obtained the wisdom of knowledge and testified, is
the World Honored One." It is [World Honored: "Maitreya!"].
　　"Or even forget the teachings": forget the teachings in two ways:
forgetting to learn the teachings, forgetting to do the Taoist
teachings. "What is the learned teaching? All the Shutara, Jiye, Jishuo,
Gada, Udana, such words, Jataka, no Dharma, and Viphra that have been
learned to him are the learned teachings. The commandment. He forgets,
completely forgets, forcibly forgets, completely forcefully forgets, and
becomes an outsider." This is or even will forget the teaching.
　　"What are the precepts for doing the Tao? The right trail, the trail
of obedience, the trail that is not reversed, the trail as it means, the
trail of the Dharma, the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the
door on the roots, the knowledge of food and drink Appropriate,
specializing in sobriety, mindfulness and clear understanding, four
mindfulness, four right effort, four spiritual sufficiency, five
faculties, five powers, seven enlightenment factors, and eight noble
paths, this is the teaching of the Tao. Forgetting, forgetting
completely, being an outsider." This is also, or even, forgets the
teaching.
　　"Wrongly acting": "killing, taking without giving, invading other
people's houses , taking (carrying) plunder, also being a robber, also
robbing the road, adultery (walking into) another's wife, saying
falsehood." .
　　"To him it is unholy": "To that man it is unholy, foolish, ignorant,
ignorant, sophistry (immortality), i.e., wicked ways." For him it is
unholy .
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said: "[The Blessed One:
'Maitreya!'] who engages in 　　lust ,or even forgets the teachings and
　　　acts wrongly,
　　is unholy to him." 　　　He is like a lost chariot in the world,
they say: the inferior common man.



　　"Before and alone": In two ways, before and after alone: ​​in the
name of a monk or in the renunciation of righteousness of the masses.
How to walk alone before and after in the name of becoming a monk? After
cutting off all obstacles in the house, after cutting off the obstacles
of children and wives, after cutting off the obstacles of relatives,
after cutting off the obstacles of friends, after cutting off the
obstacles of storage, after shaving the hair and beard, after wrapping
the cassocks, from After becoming a homeless person after becoming a
homeless person, after starting to become a state of nothingness, you
should walk, live, move, turn around, protect, maintain, and survive.
　　How to act alone before and after the abandonment of righteousness
by the masses? When he ordained in this way, he used the forest, the
wild forest, and the frontier dwellings alone (sit down): quiet, quiet,
away from the atmosphere of others, living alone, suitable for sitting
alone; he walked alone, alone Standing alone, sitting alone, lying down
alone, entering the village alone for alms, returning alone, sitting
alone in a quiet place, walking alone, walking alone, staying, moving,
turning up, guarding, perpetuating, and subsistence, so are the masses.
The renunciation of righteousness before and after doing alone.
　　"Anyone who engages in lust": Those who are not the right way...
(abbreviated in the middle) are called the law of lust...for that reason
they are called the law of lust. "Anyone who engages in lustful
desires": "Anyone who abandons the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, studies, and
then returns to the secular world after a while, engages in, swerves to
engage in, fully engages, and orients toward engaging in lustful
dharmas." For those who engage in lustful desires.
　　"He is like a lost chariot in the world": "'The chariot', the lost,
the unregulated, the unmade, the untrained elephant chariot, the horse
chariot, the ox chariot, the goat chariot, the public chariot Riding a
sheep cart, a camel cart, a donkey and a horse cart, it takes a side
road, climbs the uneven stubble and rocks, destroys the mounted cart,
and falls into the cliff. Like the lost, the uncontrolled, The unmade,
untrained chariot rides on the side path. Similarly, the one who returns
to the secular world is similar to the lost chariot. The stray,
uncontrolled, unmade, untrained car rides up rough stumps, rocks, so the
one who reincarnates is like a lost car ride, he rides on rough bodies.
karma, ascending the uneven language career, ascending the unruly
intentional karma, ascending the unruly killing, ascending the unruly
taking without giving, ascending the unruly licentiousness, ascending
the unruly lying, ascending the unruly On the uneven divisive language,
on the uneven vulgar language, on the uneven profanity, on the uneven
greed, on the uneven malice, on the uneven wrong view, on the uneven
various Go, climb the five kinds of desires that are not smooth, and
climb the covers that are not smooth. Just as the lost, unregulated,
unmade, untrained chariot destroys the mounted chariot, so the same Yes,
the one who returned to the secular world is like a lost chariot. He
destroys himself (destroys himself) in hell, destroys himself in the
realm of animals, destroys himself in the realm of hungry ghosts,
destroys himself in the world of humans, and destroys himself in the
world of heaven. Just as the lost, uncontrolled, unmade, and untrained
chariot fell into the cliff, so the reincarnated one is like the lost
chariot, he fell into the cliff of life, into the The old cliff, the
cliff of sickness, the cliff of death, the cliff of sorrow, sorrow and
despair. "In the world," in the world of suffering, in the world of
human beings." Because he was lost in the world car ride.
　　"They say: inferior ordinary people": "Ordinary people", what is the
meaning of ordinary people? "They cause many pollutions to be born."
Ordinary people; "A lot of those who have not been removed (killed)" are
ordinary people; "Those who see many masters' faces" are ordinary
people; "Those who have not come out of many places of interest" are
ordinary people; "They made many kinds of fabrications." For ordinary
people; "They were swept away by many kinds of storms." For ordinary
people; "They were burned with many kinds of torture." " is an ordinary
person; "one who is greedy, craved, bound, fascinated, tainted,
attached, fixed, and obstructed in many of the five desires" is an
ordinary person; "covered and encased by many five veils" , covering,
closing, covering, covering” are ordinary people. "They say: Wicked
commoners": "They say so, tell so, talk so, explain so, say so: Wicked,
low, low, low, low-minded, trivial common people." For them Said:
inferior ordinary people.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Whoever walks alone before and after, who is engaged in lust,
　　　he is like a lost chariot in the world, and they say, "
　　Worthy common man ." ,
　　　after seeing this, he should study and give up lust.
　　"Whatever the former glory and honor, his one or even was
abandoned": "'What is glory? Here, a certain kind of person in the
former state of ascetic is revered, revered, honored, respected,
clothed, fed, sheltered, The patient needs the gainer of things and
medical necessities. This is glory. What is praise? Here, a certain type
of people came to praise and praise in the previous state of ascetic,
the wise, the wise, the wise, the learned, the eloquent, Those who
should be skilled in argumentation: are "sutra reciters (sutra
teachers)", or "law holders (lawyers)", or "dharma speakers", or "people
who live in forests", or "constant beggars", or "dung wearers" A person
who sweeps clothes, or a person who has only three clothes, or a person
who begs for food in sequence, or who does not eat after eating, or a
person who always sits [not lying down], or who lives anywhere, or who
The one who obtains the jhāna", or the "one who obtains the second
jhāna", or the "one who obtains the third jhāna", or the "the one who
obtains the fourth jhāna", or the "one who obtains the limitless place
of emptiness", or the "one who obtains the fourth jhāna". The one who
arrives at the limitless place of knowledge, the one who arrives at the
place where there is nothing, or the “one who arrives at the place where
neither thought nor non-ideality waits." This is praise. ' for all the
glory and honor that preceded him.
　　"His that or was even abandoned." After a while, when he gave up the
Buddha, the Dhamma, the Sangha, his studies and returned to the secular
world, that glory and that reputation faded, faded, lost, faded,
disappeared, broken. "For all the glory and honor that came before, his
one may even be cast aside.
　　"After seeing this, he should study, and he should give up lust."
"This", the glory and honor in the previous state of ascetics, and
later, when he gave up the Buddha, the Dharma, the Sangha, and learned
to return to the secular world, there was no honor and no honor. is to
achieve failure. "After seeing", "After seeing, after measuring, after
judging, after separating, after clarifying." This is after seeing. "He
should learn", there are three kinds of learning: increase the study of
precepts, increase the study of the mind, and increase the study of
wisdom. What is an increase in precepts? Here, a bhikkhu is a
precept-keeper, who livesand is protected by the self-controlof
Paratimcha, who has the right conduct, the state of conduct , who sees
terrible things in the midst of petty sins, who learns after receiving
and upholding them in various fields of study.. The small precepts and
the big precepts are the foundation of precept dependence, the [self]
restraint of behavior, the entrance of self-control, the good dharma and
so on to the top (achievement), this is the increase of precepts.
　　What is Zeng Shang Xin Xue? Here, the bhikkhu leaves from desire,
leaves unwholesome dharma, enters and dwells inthe first jhāna where
there is search and attention, and when detachment gives rise to joy and
happiness... (abbreviated in the middle) the second jhāna...the third
jhāna...after entering To abide in the fourth jhāna [in which there is
neither suffering nor pleasure, but which is calm and pure in mind] is
the learning of the mind.
　　What is Zeng Shang Hui Xue? Here, the bhikkhu is the wise one,
possessing the wisdom that leadsto arising and passing away , the holy,
the insight, that leadsto the complete cessation of suffering, and he
knows as it really is, "This is suffering." He knows as it really is,
"This is the cause of suffering." It is the cessation of suffering."
Knowing as it is, "This is the path leading to the path of suffering."
Knowing as it is: "These are the taints." Knowing as it is: "This is the
collection of the taints." Knowing as it is: "This is the cessation of
the taints." This is the path leading to the leakage." This is Zeng
Shang Hui Xue. Anything that is not orthodox... (abbreviated in the
middle) is called the law of lust...for that reason it is called the law
of lust.
　　"After seeing this, he should learn, and he should give up lust":
"To give up, pacify, cut off thoughts, and stop the lustful dharma, he
should learn to increase the precepts, he should also learn to increase
the mind, and he should learn to increase the wisdom. These three
lessons should be learned when facing (noticing); when knowing should be
learned; when seeing should be learned; when examining should be
learned; when the mind is established (determination) should be learned;
You should learn when you are vigorously striving; you should learn when
your mindfulness arises; you should learn when your mind is
concentrated; you should learn when you understand with wisdom; you
should learn when you realize that you should be realized; you should
learn when you know everything. Learn when you know; learn when you let
go; learn when you let go; learn when you practice what should be
learned; learn when you testifyPs.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>, 41.], should be practiced,
should be practiced well, and should be turned around after being
upheld. "In order to see this, he should study and give up lust.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Wherever the former glory and honor, his one or even was abandoned,
　　　after seeing this he should learn, he should give up lust."
　　53. He was defeated by intention, thinking like a miserable one,
　　　hearing this from others After reproof, those like that become
ashamed.
　　"He is defeated by intentions, and he thinks like a miserable one":
"He who is desirous, ill-willed, injurious, reached, tormented, united,
possessed, covered by lustful intentions, malicious intentions,
injurious intentions, seeing intentions, tormented, united, possessed,
covered, he ponders, forcibly ponders, with all kinds of ponderings,
After leaving from there, thinkinglike a miserable one, like a stupid
person, like a very foolish person. Like an owl on a branch, thinking
about a mouse, thinking hard, thinking with all kinds of thinking,
thinking after leaving from there, thinking like a jackal seeking a fish
on the bank of a river , thinking hard, thinking with all kinds of
thinking, thinking after going from there, like a cat in the gap,
sewers, and garbage heaps seeking mice and thinking, thinking hard,
thinking with all kinds of thinking, thinking after leaving from there,
like a donkey that is cut off and carried, Thinking in the gap, in the
sewer, in the rubbish heap, thinking hard, thinking with all kinds of
thinking, thinking after leaving there [ MN
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=50>. His intentions
reach, torture, combine, possess, cover, he thinks, thinks hard, thinks
with all kinds of thoughts, and from there thinks like a miserable; like
a fool; By.
　　"After hearing this rebuke from another, one like that becomes
ashamed": "Others," pro-teachers, or teachers (Ajali), or equivalents of
relatives, or equivalents of teachers, or friends, or acquaintances, or
close , or his companions urge: "Xueyou! After you get such a great
master, become a monk in such a well-spoken law, and obtain a holy group
like this, the following factors of inferior lustful law will give up
the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, and then study. To return to the secular
world, it is not your gain for that person; it is your evil gain for
that person. There is no faith in the good law, there is no shamein the
good law, and there is no you in the good law. I am ashamed, there is
indeed no vitalityin the good Dharma, neither your thoughts in the good
Dharma nor your wisdom .
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=5.5>, discerning their
words, ways of speaking, teaching, admonishing, and after admonition,
they become ashamed, oppressed, struck, distressed, and become a state
of sorrow. "Like that kind": like that kind, like Such, of that
dwelling, of that kind, of something like that, the one who has returned
to the world." Hearing this rebuke from others, one like that becomes
ashamed.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He is defeated by his intentions, he thinks like a miserable one,
and when he
　　　hears this reproach of others, he becomes ashamed like that."
　　54. And he also makes swords, when urged by the words of others,
　　　this is true It would be a big cave: he jumped into falsehood.
　　"And he makes swords, when urged by the words of others": "'and',
the succession of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection
of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of words; this is
the order of sentences, which is " Again'. "All swords", there are three
kinds of swords: the body sword, the verbal sword, the mind sword, the
three kinds of body and evil deeds, the four kinds of verbal and evil
actions, the three kinds of intentional and evil actions. When he was
urged by his own teacher, or teacher, or equivalent to his own teacher,
or equivalent to teacher, or friend, acquaintance, close person, or
companion, he deliberately said falsely, saying, "Great virtue! A happy
one who is a monk, [but] for me it is supposed to bring up my mother,
because that is the way to be reborn." He said: "For me, it is supposed
to bring up the father, because that is way to be reborn." For me, it is
supposed to bring up brothers... For me it should raise sisters... for
me it should raise sons... for me it should raise daughters... for me it
should raise friends... for me it should raise colleagues... for me it
should raise Raising relatives... He said: 'For me it is necessary to
raise blood relatives, because that is the way to be reborn.' Be a
knife, when urged by the words of others.
　　"It will indeed be a great cave": "This is his great cave, great
forest, great jungle, great danger, great danger, great bend, great mud,
great quagmire, great obstacle, great bondage, that is: intentional
lies." Because this would indeed be a big cave.
　　"He jumped into false speech": false speech is called false speech,
and here a certain class of people is brought to the synagogue, or to
the assembly, or to the kin, or to the community, or to the palace, and
is brought in for questioning as a witness: "Hey! Come! Man! Tell me
what you know." What he doesn't know says, "I know." Or, what he knows
says, "I don't know." What he doesn't see says, "I see." Or, what he
sees says, "I don't see it." As such, he deliberately speaks falsely
[AN.3.28] for his own sake, or for the sake of others, or for the sake
of something less tempting [ AN.3.28
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.28>], which is called
false speech.
　　Or, take three deeds as lying: just before [speaking] [thinking]:
"I'm going to lie." While speaking [thinking]: "I'm lying." When having
said [thinking]: "The lie has been spoken by me." Take these three
behaviors as lie. Or, take four deeds as lying: Just before [speaking]
[thinking]: "I'm going to lie." While speaking [thinking]: "I'm lying."
When having said [thinking]: "The lie has been spoken by me." There are
dissenting (wrong) views, and these four behaviors are regarded as
lying. Or, with five signs...with six signs...with seven signs...with
eight signs as a lie: just before [saying] [thought]: "I'm going to
lie." Saying When [thought]: "I speak lies." When it has been said
[thought]: "I have told lies." There are dissenting (wrong) views,
dissenting likings, and dissenting likings , There are different
perceptions, and the nature of different attachments, using these eight
behaviors as lies. "He jumped into false speech": "He jumped into,
plunged into, dived into, into false speech." Jumped into false speech
for him.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said: 　　" And he makes swords
　　, and when urged by the words of others,
　　　it will indeed be a big cave: he jumps into false speech. 　　　"
When lust is combined, it is like a fool being pulled around. 　　"The
famous and wise": "Here, a certain class of people who came to praise
and praise in the former state of ascetics: he is the wise, wise, wise,
learned, eloquent, and eloquent. The sutra (scriber)”, or the “law
holder (lawyer)”, or the “talker”… (abbreviated in the middle) or “the
one who has arrived at the place where one wants to go”. In this way, he
is the one who is known, Those who are known, those who are famous." The
famous and wise ones.



　　"Walking alone": "There are two ways to walk alone: ​​in the name of
renunciation or in the name of renunciation of the masses. How to walk
alone in the name of renunciation? After cutting off all obstacles to
the home... (Middle omitted) In this way, he walks alone in the name of
becoming a monk. How can he walk alone in the name of abandoning the
righteousness of the masses? When he becomes a monk like this, he uses
the forests, wild forests, and borderlands alone... (Middle omitted)
This is the abandonment of the righteousness of the masses. For the solo
walk." For the solo walk.
　　"But when he is combined with lust": Those who are illegal, filthy
(village law)... (abbreviated in the middle) are called lustful
laws...for that reason they are called lustful laws. "But when he is
combined with lust": "After a while, he will give up the Buddha, the
Dharma, the Sangha, study and then return to the secular world, and
should combine (yoke) on the lustful Dharma, strongly yoke [, completely
yoke], toward the upper yoke, fully toward the upper yoke." For but when
he is united in lust.
　　"Like the stupid being pulled around": "The miserable are like the
stupid, like the most foolish being dragged, pulled around, in trouble:
killing, taking without giving, invading, taking (carrying) plunder,
also He was a robber, blocked the road and robbed, committed adultery
(walked into) another's wife, and said falsehood, so that he was
dragged, dragged around, and got into trouble. After the king captured
him, he was punished by various punishments: by whipping, and by Beating
with a stick, also hitting with a stick, also cutting off the hands,
also cutting off the feet, also cutting off the hands and feet, also
cutting off the ears, also cutting off the nose, also cutting off the
ears and the nose, also inflicting sour porridge pot punishment, also
The bald baldness, the Luohou oral punishment, the fire fencing, the
candle hand punishment, the exorcism, the bark and the bark punishment,
the antelope punishment, the hooking of the flesh, and the money
punishment, Alkali bathing is also used, the door is twisted, the straw
feet are stepped on the platform, the hot oil is poured, the dogs are
bitten, the living are stabbed with sharp objects, and the head is cut
off with a knife. He was dragged, dragged around, in trouble,
　　or, conquered by desire and craving, possessed of mind, jumped into
the sea in a boat while seeking possessions, tormented by the contact of
horseflies, mosquitoes, winds, suns and snakes in front of the cold and
heat , dying of hunger and thirst, go to the low roll glass; go to Tao
Goule; go to Tao Gexile; go to the black face; go to Mancheng; go to
Weisun'e; Go to Bengal; Go to the Deaf Bound; Go to the Golden Summit;
Go to the Golden Land; Ge; walk to Ban'er; walk to Salamada'er; walk to
Jinna; walk to the first moment; walk to Venaga; The road that can be
crossed by walking on knees; the road that goats can walk; the road that
can be walked by sheep; the road that can be walked by walking on the
pillars; the road that can only be crossed by holding an umbrella; the
road that can only be crossed by chopping bamboo The way through; to the
bird's way; to the rat's way; to the cracked way;
　　When he seeks he does not find, and suffers from not getting, so
that he is dragged, pulled around, and in trouble.
　　When he seeks he finds it, and is distressed because of the
protection he has received: "Is my property neither the king will take,
nor the thieves, nor the fire, nor the water, nor the water. The lovely
heirs won't take it either. ' When he guards and protects in this way,
his possessions are destroyed, he suffers from separation, and thus he
is dragged, dragged around, and in trouble. ' For when he joins in lust,
he is drawn around like a fool.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"The wise and wise man who is famous walks alone,
　　　but when he joins in lust, he is dragged around like a fool."
　　56. The Muni is here on the front and back, and after knowing this
trouble,
　　　He will firmly walk alone and will not engage in lust.
　　"The Muni is here before and after, after knowing this fault":
"'This', there was glory and praise in the state of ascetic before, but
after abandoning the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, and learning and then
returning to the secular world, there was no glory and no reputation. ,
This achievement and loss. "After knowing", after understanding, after
measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying.
"Muni", MunaKnown as wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending the net,
he is Muni. "Here", of this view; of this liking; of this liking; in
this clinging; in this dharma; in the holy life; in the teachings of
this master; in this individual; in this human world. "Because Muni is
here before and after, after knowing this trouble.
　　"He will walk firmly on his own": "He will walk firmly on his own in
two ways: in the name of renunciation or in the renunciation of the
masses. How will he walk stably in the name of renunciation? After all
obstacles in the home, after cutting off the obstacles of wife and
children, after cutting off the obstacles of relatives, after cutting
off the obstacles of friends, after cutting off the obstacles of
storage, after shaving the hair and beard, after wrapping up the robes,
and renunciation from home. After becoming a homeless person, he should
walk, live, act, turn around, protect, survive, and survive on his own
after starting to become a state of nothingness. In this way, in the
name of becoming a monk, he will firmly walk alone
　　. Will he staunchly walk alone? When he becomes a monk in this way,
he will take advantage of the forest, the wilderness, and the frontier
dwellings (sits): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people, and
people living alone suitable for sitting alone; he can walk alone, stand
alone, sit alone, lie alone, enter the village alone for alms, return
alone, sit alone in a quiet place, walk alone, walk alone Walking,
staying, moving, turning up, guarding, perpetuating, and subsistence, in
this way, with the renunciation of righteousness of the masses, he will
firmly walk alone." The upper will be the steadfast one; it will be the
abiding one." For him he will staunchly walk alone.
　　"I won't engage in lust": "Anything that is illegal, filthy (village
law)... (abbreviated in the middle) is called the law of lust... For
that reason, it is called the law of lust. He will not approach or
engage in the law of lust. , will not participate, will not be used,
will not practice, will not practice well (completely practice), will
not be upheld and then revolved." In order not to engage in lust.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"The Muni is here before and after, knowing this trouble,
　　　He will firmly walk alone and will not engage in lust.
　　57. He should then learn to abstain from it, which belongs to the
supreme being of the saints,
　　　[but] he should not think that he is supreme because of that, in
the presence of the one who is truly nirvana.
　　"He should learn to keep away": "Keep away", there are three kinds
of separation: physical separation, mental separation, and dependent
separation. What is being away from? ... (slightly omitted) This is by
keeping away. The separation of the body belongs to the continuous
separation of the body and the desire to be free from the desires; the
separation of the mind belongs to the purity of the mind and the highest
purity; "He should learn", there are three kinds of learning: the
learning of increasing morality, the learning of increasing mind, and
the learning of increasing wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the learning of increasing wisdom. "He should learn to stay away": "He
should learn, practice, practice well, and turn away after being
upheld." Because of this, he should learn to stay away.
　　"This is the highest of the sages": "The sages are called the
buddhas and the disciples of the buddhas and the pratyekabuddhas. This
is the first of the sages, the supreme, the supreme, the supreme, the
supreme. , the highest, that is: abstinence from conduct." For this is
the highest of the saints.
　　"[But] he shouldn't be considered the best because of that": "Should
not be arrogant, arrogant, arrogant, resolute, stubborn (arrogance)
because of that, and shouldn't be arrogant because of that Be born, and
should not be stubborn, very stiff, head-high because of that." For
[but] he should not be considered the most victorious because of that.
　　"Before the one who is truly nirvana": "Before, near, near, not far
away, near that one who is nirvana." To be in the presence of the one
who is truly nirvana.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He should learn to renounce, which belongs to the supreme being of
the saints,
　　　[but] he should not be considered supreme because of that, in the
presence of the one who is truly nirvana."
　　58. The Muni, who walks in emptiness, is one who has no expectations in
　　　all desires, and those who are bound by all desires, envy those
who have passed through the storm.
　　"To the Muni who does nothingness": "The empty, the far away, the
separated, the empty, the far away, the separated by the body evil; With
greed...with hatred...with delusion...with anger...with
resentment...with hiding evil...with tyranny...with jealousy...with
stinginess...with deceit...with cunning...with stubbornness... With
passion...with slowness...with extreme slowness...with
embarrassment...with ease...with all pollution...with all evil
deeds...with all affliction...with all scorching heat...with all
passion... ...to create emptiness, distance, and separation with all
unwholesome things. "Muni", Muna is called wisdom, that is wisdom,
knowledge and understanding... (Abbreviated in the middle) After
transcending the dyed net, he is Muni. "When "Walking", should walk,
stay, act, turn around, guard, make existence, make existence exist."
This is the Muni who walks in emptiness.
　　"Those who have no expectations in all desires": ""Desires," there
are two kinds of desires: desires for things and desires for
pollution... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called desires in
things... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are It is called the desire
for pollution. After the desire for things is omniscient, after the
desire for pollution is abandoned, abandoned, driven away, finished, and
brought to non-existence, when there is no expectation in desire, Become
one who has given up desire, one who has eliminated desire, one who has
freed from desire, one who has given up desire, one who has given up
desire Those who have given up greed, those who have given up greed,
those who are not hungry, those who have cooled down, those who have
become cool, those who feel happiness ,and those who live with
themselves as Brahman." Those who have no expectations in all desires.
　　"Those who are bound by desires envy those who have passed through
the storm": "'People' is synonymous with all beings. People are lustful,
lustful, bound, fascinated, tainted, enslaved Attached, anchored, and
obstructed, the torrents of their wanting, accepting, wishing, desiring,
supplication have passed; some have passed through; the flood of seeing
has passed; the ignorance has passed Those who have crossed the stream;
those who have crossed all samsara, have come out, have crossed, have
passed through, have passed over, have been overcome; have reached the
other side; have reached the other side, have reached the ultimate
(goal); have reached Those who have reached the end, those who have
reached the end; those who have reached the end, those who have reached
the boundary (the ultimate); those who have reached the boundary, those
who have reached the end; those who have reached the end, those who have
reached the ambulance; those who have reached the ambulance, have
arrived Those who have reached the refuge; those who have reached the
refuge, have reached the place of refuge; those who have reached the
place of refuge have arrived without fear; those who have reached
withoutundead; Those who have reached immortality have reached nirvana;
those who have reached nirvana are like debtors who desire and desire to
be free from debt; like those who are sick and desire to be free from
disease; those who are bound by shackles (bound) desire to be freed from
their shackles; like slaves who desire and desire to be freed from their
shackles Slaves; as those who leap into the hard way yearn for and envy
the place where stability is the ultimate, so in the same way people are
greedy, greedy, tied, fascinated, tainted, attached, fixed, enslaved.
Obstacles, the torrents of their desires, acceptances, desires,
longings, and petitions have been passed; some of the floods have been
passed... (abbreviated in the middle) those who have reached Nirvana;
those who have reached Nibbana." Those who are bound on the top, envy
those who have survived the storm.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"The Muni who walks in emptiness is the one who has no expectation in
　　　all desires, and those who are bound by all desires, admire those
who have passed through the storm.
　　" [completed].


Notes:
　1. Annoyed by lustful people: forgetting the teachings, committing the
ten evils (ten swords), losing one's reputation, and being blamed.
　2. Deliberately lying will be a big cave.
　12/11/2020 15:20
Comments:
　　 "Two people" (Ubhinnaṃ), "Dharma Light" is explained as "belonging
to both men and women" (dvinnaṃ itthipurisānaṃ), and this translation is
now approved.
　　 "Learners who have learned" (sikkhitasikkho), Dhamma Illumination
is explained by "Teaching about the Dharma that friends ask for"
(sahāyaṃ ārabbha dhammadesanaṃ yācanto bhaṇati).
　　 "Generalization, analysis, distinction" (bhaji vibhaji pavibhaji),
"Dharma Brightness" respectively "divide by analysis (by
generalization)" (Bhajīti uddesavasena vibhāgaṃ katvā bhājesi.), "by
analysis (interpretation). Divided in many ways (various places)”
(Vibhajīti niddesavasena vividhā bhājesi.), “analyzed by distinguishing
opposite modes of explanation” (Pavibhajīti paṭiniddesavasena pakārena
vibhaji.); Hence analysis; corresponding to the led inference and thus
differentiated” (Ugghaṭitaññūnaṃ vasena bhaji. Vipañcitaññūnaṃ vasena
vibhaji. Neyyānaṃ vasena pavibhaji).
　　 "Frequent death" (miyyamāno), the original uses the present
participle of "die" (miyyati).
