Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
8. Explanation of the Posole
Sutra
Next , the Explanation of the Posole Sutra will say:

59. They tell: "Here is purity", they say there is no purity in
other dharmas, and

　declare that whatever is there is pure each one is fixed in its
own truth.

"They told: 'Here is purity'": "They said, talked, talked,
explained, said: Here is pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated,
universally freed, they said, talked, talked, explained, It is said:
"The world is eternal, this is the real thing, and the rest are empty."
It is pure, pure, and universally pure; detachment, liberation, and
universal detachment, the world is very permanent... (Abbreviated in the
middle) The world has Boundaries...the world is boundless...life is the
body... life is one body is another...the Tathagata exists after
death...the Tathagata does not exist after death...the Tathagata exists
and doesnot exist after death ...they say, talk, talk Say, explain, say,
"The Tathagata is neither existing nor non-existent after death, this is
the real thing, and everything else is empty." It is pure, pure,
completely pure; freed, liberated, freed from everywhere." Tell them:
"It's pure here".

"They say that there is no purity in other dharmas": "Except for his
own master, the teaching of the Dharma, the group, the vision, the
trail, the path, he discards, uproots, and surrounds all dissent: 'The
master is not all wise, and the Dharma is not The good says, [their]
group is not good deeds, seeing is not good, the path is not established
by good, the path is not detached, there is no purity here, or pure, or
pervasive pure, or free, or liberated, or pervasive Escaping, where they
do not become pure, or become pure, or become all pure, or be freed, or
be liberated, or be all freed from, are inferior, inferior, inferior,
low, inferior intentions It’s trivial.” They say so, tell so, talk so,
talk so, explain so, speak so.” Because they say there is no purity in
other dharmas.

"When declaring that whoever depends there is pure": "'Whoever
depends', whoever speaks of the master, Dhamma, group, view, path, path,
dependence, cessation of the path (Sri Lankan version) , clinging to,
entering, dyeing, and turning one's heart toward (the solution of
victory). "There", in one's own view, in one's own liking, in one's own
inclination, in one's own opinion. "When declaring that everything is
pure time', the speaker of the pure, the speaker of the good, the
speaker of the wise, the speaker of the firm, the speaker of the method,
the speaker of the reason, the speaker of the The talker of the
characteristic, the talker of the grounded, the talker of the
possibility of his own assertion." For when it is declared that whatever
rests there is pure.

"Every one is fixed in their own truth": "Every ascetic and Brahmin,
in their own truth, each one is fixed, stopped, clinging, caught up,
dyed, turned towards the heart, 'the world It is permanent, this is the
real thing, everything else is empty.” [Everyone] is fixed, stopped,
stuck, caught, stained, and turned toward the heart; the world is very
permanent… ... (abbreviated in the middle) "The Tathagata neither exists
nor does not exist after death, this is the reality, and everything else
is empty." [Everyone] was fixed, stopped, stuck, caught, stained, and
Turn your heart toward." To be fixed in their respective truths.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"They told: 'Here is purity', they said there is no purity in other
dharmas,

　When declaring that whatever rests there is pure, each is fixed in
its own truth.

60. After those who like to talk sneak into the crowd, they call
those who are hostile to each other as fools, and

　those who rely on others tell their criticisms: those who like to
admire, those who claim to be skillful .

"After those who like to sneak into the crowd": "'Those who are
obsessive', those who are obsessive, those who desire, those who desire,
those who value, those who are all-seeking. "After sneaking into the
crowd," sneaking into, immersing in, going deep into, entering the
Kshatriya masses , after the crowd of Brahmins, the crowd of house
owners, the crowd of recluses." Sneak into the rear of the crowd for
those who are philosophical.

"Those who call each other's opponents are fools": "The 'enemies'
are two persons, two quarrellers, two disputants, two disputants, two
disputants, two accusers, two disputants, two disputants A talker who
sets, sees, sees, gazes, contemplates, observes [enemies] as fools,
inferiors, inferiors, inferiors, inferiors, inferior-intentions,
insignificant." for fools.

"Those who rely on others inform the criticism": "[To] other
masters, teachings of the Dharma, groups, views, trails, dependence on
the path, cessation (Sri Lankan version), clinging, falling into,
clinging to the mind Towards (winners) Ones. Arguments are called
quarrels, arguments, arguments, arguments, disagreements, or,
"arguments," they inform arguments, arguments, arguments, arguments,
arguments, arguments That unnutritious talk; they talk, talk, explain,
talk." To inform the arguments for those who depend on others.

"Those who love to admire, those who claim to be skillful": "'Those
who claim to be skillful' are those who love to appreciate, those who
wish to be appreciated, those who desire to be appreciated, those who
value appreciation, and those who seek praise. A speaker, a wise
speaker, a firm speaker, a speaker with a method, a speaker with a
reason, a speaker with a characteristic, a speaker with a basis A
speaker, a speaker who makes his own claims possible." A good admirer, a
proclaimer of skill.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Those who are philosophical have sneaked into the crowd, and they
call each other's enemies fools, and

　those who rely on others tell their criticisms: those who like to
admire, those who claim to be skillful."

61. Those who are talked about being yokein the crowd, those who
want to admire become afraid of failure The one who
　is ashamed
when rebuked, the seeker of faults in anger when [being] rebuked.


"Talked yoke in the crowd": "In the Kshatriya crowd, or the Brahmin
crowd, or the housekeeper crowd, or the ascetic crowd they are yoke by
their own talk, strongly yoke, toward the yoke, fully toward the yoke
fully yoke and talk about." Yoke to be talked about in the crowd.

"Those who want praise become those who are afraid of failure": "The
one who wants to be admired is the one who appreciates, praises,
acclaims, who can carry praise, the receiver, the hoper, the one who
desires, the one who asks. be a skeptic, fear a loser just before the
conversation: 'Am I going to be a winner? Am I going to be a defeater?
How will I argue? How to differentiate (distinguish)? How will I respond
to difference (nuance)? How will I do entanglement (entanglement)? How
will I do detachment (untangling)? Destruction)? How would I
synthesize?' So to be skeptical, afraid of losers before talking." Be
the fear of losers for those who want to admire.

"Be ashamed when reprimanded": all those judges, masses, members of
the masses, interrogators (Thailand version) They reprimand: "speaking
from the truth" They reprimand from the righteous; "speaking the words"
They debunk from words; "what they say departs from meaning and words."
They debunk from meaning and words; (misplacement), those arguments are
not valid (being done), those refuting actions are bad (evil actions),
those differences are not valid, those responding to differences are not
valid, those entanglements are not valid, those are not valid for
detachment, those that cut off do not hold , those who do not do well in
synthesis theory, talk about right and wrong, talk about evil, talk
about evil, explain evil, speak evil, speak evil.” They denounced. "Be
ashamed when rejected": "Be ashamed when rejected; be distressed,
annoyed, sick, depressed." To be ashamed when rejected.

"When [being] rebuked he became angry and became a seeker of
faults": "'When [being] rebuked, rebuked, discredited, not carried with
praise he was angry, repulsive, stubborn (resistance), showing anger,
hatred , dissatisfaction.” for his anger when [being] rebuked. “Become a
seeker of faults,” seeker of flaws, seekers of errors, seekers of
faults, seekers of drips, seekers of defects [of the enemy] the seeker."
For the seeker of his faults when he [was] rebuked.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"To be talked about in the yoke of the crowd, the one who wants to
be praised becomes the one who fears defeat,

　the one who is ashamed when rebuked, the seeker of faults when he
[is] rebuked in anger."

62. What they say is incomplete, it is denounced by the judges, and

　the critics weep, mourn, lament: "He surpasses me."

"Whatever they say is crippled": "Whatever they say is inferior,
mean, crippled, crippled (omitted), uncompleted, they say this, tell
this, say this Talk about it, explain it this way, say it this way." For
whatever they said, they said it was incomplete.

"Rejected by those who were judged": "Anyone who was judged, the
crowd, members of the crowd, and the interrogators (Thailand version)
they rejected: "Said out of reason" they rejected from the right; "Said
out of words" they rejected from Destruction of words; "said out of
meaning and words." They break from meaning and words; setting), those
arguments are not established (being done), those refuting are not good
(evil actions), those differences are not established, those that
respond to differences are not good, those that are not established for
wrapping, those that are not good for disengagement, those that do not
cut off, those that are not established Synthesis is wrong, talking
about right and wrong, being told by evil, spoken by evil, explained by
evil, spoken by evil, spoken by evil.' They denounced." denounced for
those who were judged .

"Worrying, griefing": "''Weeping', 'I have been turned to the other;
thought of the other; considered the other; examined the other, that is
the big party, the big crowd, the big retinue , and [I] this group of
people is discordant, and because of the reconciled masses I will
further disrupt the talks.” for weeping. "Sorrow", "his victory" he
grieves; "my defeat" he grieves; "his gain" he grieves; "my failure" he
grieves; "his reputation" he grieves; "my namelessness" he grieves "he
grieves; "his praise" he grieves; "my rebuke" he grieves; "my sorrow" he
grieves; "my pain" he grieves; , the beneficiary of food, shelter, the
needs of the sick, the necessities of medicine, I am disrespectful,
revered, honored, respected, the unprofitable of clothes, food, shelter,
the needs of the sick, medical necessities.” He was sad, tired, and
Weeping, beating chest and crying, came to confusion. ' Weeping and
griefing for [him]. "Inferior", inferior, inferior, incomplete,
incomplete, incomplete. "Weeping and griefing for the bad critics.

"Lamentation: 'He surpasses me.'": "'He Overcome, overwhelm,
traverse, surpass, overcome me in theory . ' This is 'He surpasses me. '
Or, 'After defeating, crushing, ending, crushing me in theory, he walks,
dwells, moves, turns, guards, perpetuates, and survives, so also 'he
surpasses me.' ' Lamentation is called the state of speech, nonsense,
murmuring, repeated mumbling, gossip, weeping. For the lamentation: "He
surpasses me."

For then, the Blessed One said:

"Whatever he says they say is broken, is denounced by the judges, and

　the critics weep, mourn, and lament: 'He surpasses me.'"

63. These disputes that arise among ascetics, among which there is
triumph and frustration,

　should stop arguing after seeing this, because there is no benefit
other than the gain of appreciation.

"These debates that take place in the ascetic": "'Sramana', anyone
who comes into the procession from outside here, who enters the
procession. These views that arise, arise, arise, arise, arise in the
ascetic Quarrel, quarrel of sight, quarrel of sight, quarrel of sight,
disagreement of sight." For these quarrels that take place among the
ascetic.

"Among these there are triumphs and depressions": "There are
victories and defeats, there are gains, and there are no gains, there is
fame and no fame, there are rebukes and praises, there are pains and
pleasures, there are joys and depressions, and there are satisfactions
and dissatisfactions. There are those who love, those who hate, those
who are proud, those who are dejected, those who are comfortable and
those who oppose, those who are triumphant, those who are frustrated,
those who are frustrated, those who are complacent, and those who are
not frustrated. With fame there is pride, with no reputation there is
despair, with praise there is pride, with rebuke there is despair, with
joy there is triumph, with bitterness with despair, with joy there is
triumph, With melancholy there is depression, with arrogance there is
pride, with humility there is depression.” Among these there is pride
and depression.

"After seeing this, you should stop arguing": "'After seeing this',
'This fault: in the quarrel of the sight, the argument of the sight, the
dispute of the sight, the dispute of the sight, the dissent of the
sight, after seeing it, after seeing it , after weighing, after judging,
after distinguishing, after clarifying." To see this {should stop
arguing?}. Arguing is called quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
dissent, or, "argument", That nutritious talkhe shouldn't argue,
shouldn't argue, shouldn't argue, shouldn't argue, shouldn't argue,
shouldn't argue, quarrel, argue, argue, argue, disagree, he should Let
go, should cast off, should end, should make it to non-existence. Should
have been separated from quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, dissent,
abstained, abstained, renounced, departed, liberated , has been freed
from bondage, he should live with a mind free from being restricted."
After seeing this, he should stop arguing.

"Because there is no other interest than that which is appreciated":
"There is no other interest than that which is appreciated: one's own,
or the interests of others, or both, or the interests of this life, or
the interests of the next life, or the obvious interests, or deep
interests, or hidden interests, or concealed interests, or unrighteous
interests, or righteous interests, or innocent interests, or innocent
interests, or clear interests, or The highest interests, they do not
exist, they do not exist, they are not known, they are not discovered."
For there is no other benefit than the gain of appreciation.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"These disputes that arise among ascetics, among which there are
triumphs and depressions,

　after seeing this one should stop arguing, because there is no
benefit other than the gain of appreciation."

64. Or he was there To be praised: after preaching the theory in the
crowd,

　because then he laughs and arrogant: after getting that benefit,
he becomes a wishful person.

"Or he is praised there": "'there', praised, admired, praised,
praised in his own views, his own likes, his own preferences, his own
opinions." For or he complimented there.

"After preaching the theory among the masses": "After preaching and
telling one's theories among the Kshatriya masses, or the Brahmin
masses, or the house-owner masses, or the ascetic masses; Firm),
augment, explain, explain, speak, hold on to the finer theory (following
the theory)." After proclaiming the theory among the masses.

"Because then he laughs and exalts": with that triumphant advantage
he becomes the delighted, the laughing, the delighted, the pleasing, the
fully satisfied, or, the one who keeps laughing with his teeth exposed.
"Because then he laughs and arrogates": "He becomes the proud, the
arrogant, the one who hoists the banner, the one who is vain for that
victory benefit." Because of that he laughs and arrogates.

"Become a wishful one after obtaining that benefit": "After the
victory benefit is obtained, achieved, obtained, possessed, and
received. 'Become wishful', become wishful; become wishful; become
wishful; become wishful; become wishful; Like a conscious person." To
become a wishful person after obtaining that benefit.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Or he is praised there: after preaching the theory in the crowd,

　because then he laughs and arrogates: after getting that benefit,
he becomes the one who wishes

. " Harmful, and he would say so slow and extremely slow,

　after seeing this he should not argue, because the skilled people
say that there is no purity because of that.

"Wangonggao will be his annoyance": "'Vangonggao', 'high and low,
high-flag, vanity.' For 'Wangonggao'. 'His vexation' , that is the
ground of his annoyance (foundation), the ground of injury, the ground
of oppression, the ground of blows, the ground of scourge." Those who
are Vangongo will be the ground of his annoyance.

"And he would say this slow and very slow": "The man said slow, and
very slow." And so he would say slow and very slow.

"After seeing this he should not argue": "['After seeing this',]
'This fault: after seeing, seeing, seeing, seeing, seeing, seeing,
seeing, seeing, seeing, disagreeing After arriving, after weighing,
after judging, after separating, after clarifying." To see this after.
"He should not argue," he should not quarrel, should not argue, should
not quarrel, should not argue, There should be no quarrels, quarrels,
quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels,
quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels,
quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels, quarrels,
quarrels, quarrels, quarrels Separated, abstained, abstained, renounced,
departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he should abide with a mind
free from limitations." After seeing this he should not argue.

"Because the skillful said not because that is pure": "The skillful
ones, those who are skillful in the accumulation, skillful in the world,
skillful in locating, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in
mindfulness, skillful in diligence Skilled ones, skillful ones of divine
feet, skillful ones of roots, skillful ones of power, skillful ones of
enlightenment factor, skillful ones of path, skillful ones of fruition,
skillful ones of nirvana, those skillful ones don’t speak, don’t talk
about, Do not talk, do not explain, do not speak and see quarrels, see
quarrels, see quarrels, see quarrels, and see disagreements, but there
is purity, purity, and universal purity; emancipation, liberation, and
universal renunciation.” For goodness The ingenious say that there is no
purity because of that.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Van Gonggao will be his vexation, and he will speak so slowly and
very slowly.

　After seeing this, he should not argue, because the skillful ones
say that there is no purity because of that."

66. As warriors are nurtured by the king's food, roars come to want
hostile warriors,

　warriors (Solar)! Please just rush there, [I] didn't have it
before, ie: for the fight.

"As a warrior nurtured by the king's food": "'Warrior', warrior,
brave, warrior-doer, not cowardly, not frightened, not frightened, not
fleeing. 'Nurtured by the king's food', by the king food, nurtured,
nurtured, nurtured, raised by the king's soft food." A warrior as
nurtured by the king's food.

"The roarer comes to want the rival warrior": "The roarer, the
shouter, the howler comes, arrives, arrives, the rival warrior, the
rival, the enemy, the rival wanter, the enjoyer, The hopeful, the eager,
the supplicant." Warriors who come for the roars wanting an enemy.

"Warrior (Soler)! Please go there": "Please go to the evil one, go,
go, advance, he is your enemy warrior, enemy, enemy, opponent. "For
Soler (Warrior)! Please go there.

"[I] didn't have it before, that is: for the fight": "Before, under
the Bodhi tree, all pollution caused by the hostile, caused by the
antagonist, caused by the hostile, caused by the antagonist, those Not
exist, not exist, not known, not discovered, abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, stopped, unable to arise, burnt by the fire of wisdom. "That is:
for fighting", i.e.: for fighting righteousness (interests) ; purpose),
for strife righteousness, for strife righteousness, for strife
righteousness, for strife righteousness, for dissent righteousness.” For
[I] was not before, that is: for battle.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"As warriors are nurtured by the food of kings, and roars come to
want rival warriors,

　warriors (Solar)! Please go there, [I] did not have it before,
that is: to fight 67.

When they argue after mastering the view, they say, "This is the
real thing."

　Please tell them that when the debate arises, there is no hostile
actor here.

"Everyone who grasps the view, they argue": "Whenever one of the
sixty-two evil views holds, after picking up, after grasping, after
grasping, after clinging, they argue, quarrel, argue, quarrel, Arguing
and disagreeing: "You don't know the law and the law, but I know the law
and the law; you know what the law and the law are! You are a wrongdoer,
and I am a righteous one; you should say it first and then say, You
should say it later; mine is consistent, yours is inconsistent; what you
have been proficient in for a long time is reversed; your theory has
been debunked (was boarded), please go and save (get out of) the theory
; you have been shrugged, or please untie, if you can.'" They argued for
those who had mastered it.

"They told: 'This is the real'": "'The world is permanent, this is
the real, everything else is empty.' They say, talk, talk, explain,
talk, the world is very permanent " TheTathagata neither exists nor does
not exist after death, this is the real thing, and the rest are empty."
They say, talk, talk, explain, talk." Tell them: "This is the only way
It is true".

"Please tell them that when the debate arises, there are no
antagonists of your those who respond to differences, those who respond
to differences, those who are bound by entanglement, those who are
detached from entanglements, those who cut off by severing, those who
are synthesizers who respond to differences, those who are your rival
warriors, rivals , enemy, opponent." for "Please inform them that when
the debate arises, there is no hostile agent of yours here." Hostile
actors, opposing actors will quarrel; they will argue; they will
quarrel; they will argue; they will disagree, those who do not exist,
who do not exist, who are not known, who are not discovered, have been
discarded...( abbreviated) by the fire of wisdom.” To ask you to inform
them that when the debate arises, there are no antagonists of yours here.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Those who have mastered the view and then argue, they say: 'This is
the truth',

　Please inform them that when the debate arises, there are no
antagonists of yours here.

68. But after leaving the Legion,they do: Do ​​not see the dissenters,
Bosole
　! What can you get in them? Those are not mastered as
supreme here.

"But after they leave the army, they walk": "The army is called the
army of demons, and they act as the army of evil; they speak evil and
act as the army of evil; they act with evil intentions as the army of
evil; Anger... Resentment... Evil... Domineering... Jealousy...
Miserliness... Cunning... Cunning... Stubborn... Passion... Slow...
Extremely Slow... Sorrow... Laziness... All Pollution... ...all evil
deeds...all afflictions...all scorching heat...all passions...all
unwholesome things are created as a demon army.

This is said by the Blessed One: [Sn.3.2, 438-441 verses]

"Desire is your first army. , Unhappiness is called the second...
(Middle abbreviated)

　Those who have no courage do not defeat him, and after defeating,
they will be happy."

When all the demonic armies and all hostile pollutions are
conquered, defeated, destroyed, disintegrated, and turned away by the
Four Noble Paths , because that is called after the Legion. 'They' are
the Arahants, those who have exhausted all the omissions. 'They walk',
they walk, live, move, turn, guard, survive, and survive." For the Dan
Li Legion After they go.

"Those who oppose view without seeing": "For them, the sixty-two
evil views have been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to
arise, and burned by the fire of wisdom. , abandon, counterattack, repel
those who see it.” For those who do not see it and oppose it.

"Borsole! What can you get from them": "What rival warriors, rivals,
rivals, rivals can you get from those arhats, those who have exhausted
[body]?" For Posole! What can you get in them?

"Those who are not grasped as supreme here": "To those arahants,
those whose defilements have been exhausted, 'this is the highest, the
first, the best, the best, the highest, the highest, the highest The
best.” Hold, grasped, attached, grasped, believed, they did not exist,
they did not exist, they were not known, they were not discovered, they
were abandoned, cut off, calmed down, and Ceases, cannot arise, is
burned by the fire of wisdom." For those who are not mastered here as
supreme.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"But after leaving the Legion they do, and do not see those who
oppose them,

　Possole! What can you get from them? Those who are not mastered
here as supreme."

69. Again you have a meditation When you come, and with all your
evil views in your mind

　, you will meet the Cleansing One, and you will definitely not be
able to move forward.

"And you have the coming of contemplation": "'again', the
continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection
of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of words; this is
the order of sentences, which is 'again'. ', thinking, thinking,
thinking: Will I be the winner? Will I be the defeater? How will I
argue? )? How will I respond to difference (nuance)? How will I do
entanglement (entanglement)? How will I do detachment (untangling)? How
to make a synthesis? Thinking, thinking, thinking in this way to reach,
approach, to join with me." For you have the coming of contemplation.

"Only the evil views with the mind": ""Mind", all mind, mind, mind,
mind (dirty), white (pervasive), mind, mind base, mind root,
consciousness, consciousness aggregate, corresponding to that
consciousness The world. Contemplate and examine with the mind and see:
"The world is eternal," or "The world is very constant"... (abbreviated
in the middle) or "The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after
death." Contemplating evil views.

"When you meet someone who is cleansed, you will definitely not be
able to move forward": "Cleansing is called wisdom, that is wisdom,
knowledge and understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without
delusion, choosing the Dharma, and right view, for what reason is it
called "cleansing" For wisdom? With that wisdom, the evil deeds of the
body are shaken off, washed away, completely washed away, and washed
away (washed); the evil deeds of speech... (Abbreviated in the middle)
all unwholesome deeds are shaken off, washed away, completely washed
away, separated from In addition, wrong views are washed away by right
views... Wrong intentions are washed away by right intentions...
(Abbreviated in the middle) Evil liberation is shaken off by right
liberation, washed away, completely washed away, cleansed from. Besides,
all pollution, all evil deeds, all afflictions , all scorching heat, all
vexation, all unwholesome fabrications are shaken off, cleansed,
completely cleansed, and cleansed from the Eightfold Path. The Blessed
One has, has, has reached, has reached, has, fully, fully, has these to
wash. Pure Dharma, therefore, the Blessed One is the one who cleanses,
who shakes off greed, one who shakes off evil, one who shakes off
pollution, and one who shakes off heat and vexation."

"When you meet the Purifier, you will definitely not be able to move
forward": "It is impossible for the marcher Bosol to meet, meet, meet,
discuss after the competition, talk together, and enter into the
discussion with the Purifier, the Buddha, and the World Honored One.
That is What is the reason? The marcher Bosole is inferior, inferior,
inferior, inferior, inferior in intention, insignificant, and the
Blessed One is the first, the most superior, the superior, the superior,
the superior , the top. For example, it is impossible for a rabbit to
meet a drunk elephant, and they will compete after meeting; such as a
jackal, it is impossible to meet with a lion and a beastmaster, and they
will compete after meeting; for example, a young, sucking calf cannot
compete with The bulls shaking the hump meet together, meet and compete;
for example, it is impossible for the crow to meet with the Garuda, the
descendant of Weiner, and to compete after the meeting; for example,
Chandracannot meet the king of the wheel king, and after the meeting, it
is impossible For example, it is impossible for the mud ghost to meet
with Indra, the king of heaven, and then to win the competition. In this
way, it is impossible for the marcher Bosole to meet, meet, meet,
discuss and share with the Purifier, the Buddha, and the World Honored
One. Speaking, entering the discussion, what is the reason for that? The
marcher Bosole is a lowly wise man, a lowly wise man, a lowly wise man,
a lowly wise man, a lowly intentional wise man, and a meager man of
wisdom. Wisdom, Quick Wisdom, Quick Wisdom, Benefit Wisdom, Insight
Wisdomthose who have developed wisdom, those who have attained
unhindered understanding, those who have attained the Four Fearless,
those who possess ten powers, those who are like oxen, those who are
like lions, those who are virtuous, those who can bear it The wise, the
splendid, the fame, the rich, the rich, the rich, the guide, the master,
the soothing, the informer, the one who considers, the one who sees, the
one who purifies, That Blessed One is indeed the one who arises the
unborn Tao, the one who gives birth to the unborn Tao, the one who
declares the unproclaimed Tao; the one who knows the Tao, the one who
knows the Tao, the one who knows the Tao, great virtue! Also, now the
disciples live as followers of the Tao, and later they will be those who
possess it.

The Blessed One is indeed the knower, he knows, the seer, he sees;
the eye-born , the wisdom-born, the Dhamma- born, the Brahma-born, the
interpreter, the preacher, the guide of the doctrine , Immortal giver,
Dharma King, Tathagata, there is none that the World-Honored One does
not know, does not see, does not know, does not testify, and does not
touch with wisdom, the past, the future, and the present come to the
Buddha with all the signs of all dharmas in the past, the future, and
the present. In the realm of the Blessed One's Wisdom Gate, any dharma
that is called to be inferred can be known: one's own doctrine or
another's doctrine or both, or the doctrine of the present life or the
doctrine of the next life or both, Either a deep doctrine or a hidden
doctrine or a secret doctrine, or a doctrine which should be led to
inference or a doctrine which has been led to be established, or a
faultless doctrine or an uncontaminated doctrine, or a clear doctrine or
a doctrine of the highest interest, Everything revolves in the Buddha's
wisdom.

All bodily actions follow the wisdom of the Buddha and the World
Honored One; all speech actions [follow the Buddha and World Honored
One’s] wisdom; all mental actions [follow the Buddha and World Honored
One’s] wisdom. Buddha, World Honored] Wisdom about the future is
unobstructed; [Buddha, World Honored] wisdom about the present is
unobstructed, all that should be guided and deduced is the reach of
wisdom; all that is reached by wisdom should be reached. Wherever the
inference is guided, the end of the inference that should be guided is
wisdom; the end of wisdom is the inference that should be guided, and
beyond the wisdom that should be guided the inference does not turn
around; there is no way beyond the wisdom that should be guided in the
inference, These methods are limited to each other. For example, when
two lids are in full contact, the lower lid does not pass over the upper
one; [Similarly,] all that is to be led to inference is that of wisdom;
all that is to be of wisdom is that to be led to infer, and the ultimate
of that to be led to inference is wisdom; the ultimate of wisdom is to
be to be What guides inferences is beyond the wisdom that should be
guided in inferences; there is no way beyond wisdom that should be
guided in inferences. These dharmas are limited to each other.

The wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One arises in all
dharmas, and all dharmas belong to the turning, hope, intention, and
arising minds of the Buddha and the World-Honored One. Knowing the
intentions of all sentient beings, knowing the underlying trends of
afflictions, knowing behaviors, knowing the winning solution
(aspiration), knowing about less dusty, more dusty; Those who teach,
those who are difficult to teach; all beings who are capable and
incapable, including the world of heaven, demons, and Brahmans;
including ascetic and brahmins, including the generations of gods and
humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom.

Just as any fish, turtles, and even boat-swallowing fishes revolve
in the ocean, similarly, the worlds including gods, demons, and
Brahmans, as well as the ascetic and brahmins, including the generations
of gods and humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom. Like any bird,
including the Garuda of the great descendants of Weina, it turns around
in the void field. In the same way, those who have the same wisdom as
Sariputra also revolve in the field of Buddha's wisdom. The wisdom of
the Buddha pervades and transcends the wisdom of heaven and man.

All those wise Kshatriyas, wise Brahmins, wise housekeepers, wise
ascetics, wise dissenters, shrewd breakers who want to do evil deeds in
a wise manner, they are ready to The questions were later seen by the
Tathagata, and then they asked about the hidden and secret [Rhythm].
Those questions were discussed and answered by the World Honored One
with reasons, but those who had just abandoned them became the World
Honored One's [disciples]. 』Glory. [ Ps.21
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps21.htm>, para. 5]" In order to meet
the Purifier, it is certain that you will not be able to advance.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"And you have come to meditate, and with your mind set upon all evil
views, you will meet the
Purifier ,

　and you will certainly not be able to move forward." Notes: 　1.
People are all fixed in their own truths → self-esteem and inferiority →
criticism. 　2. Those who want to admire are afraid of failure, ashamed
when reprimanded, and angry when reprimanded. 　3. There is pride (slow)
and frustration in the argument, and there is no other benefit except
the gain of appreciation. 　12/11/2020 15:30
