Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
9. Explanation of the Book
of Mackenzie 　　Next , the explanation of the Book of Mackenzie will say:
　　70. After seeing craving, unpleasantness and greed, I have no desire
in lust,
　　　why [to] this pee full of feces? ? I don't want to touch it with
my feet either.
　　"After seeing craving, unpleasantness, and greed, I have no desire
in lust." "After seeing, seeing craving, unpleasantness, and greed, the
daughter of the devil, I have no desire in the law of lust, or greed, or
Love." After seeing craving, unhappiness, and greed, I have no desire in
lust.
　　"Why [want] this urine-filled, fecal-filled? I don't want to touch
it with feet": "Why [want] this urine-filled, fecal-filled,
phlegm-filled, blood-filled, bone-tendon bonding, flesh-and-blood
coating, endothelium A body that is covered, covered with skin, oozing
and dripping from more than one hole, inhabited by worms, and finished
with all kinds of spit and filth, does not want to approach with feet,
and where do you live with, or live with?" For: Why [to] this pee full
of feces? I don't want to touch it with my feet either. {"This is not
inconceivable: those who desire heavenly desires will not desire human
desires, or those who desire human desires will not desire heavenly
desires, whatever you want, neither use nor desire nor desire, Without
asking, what is your vision, which vision do you have?" he asked? "}
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"After seeing craving, unpleasantness, and greed, I have no desire
in lust,
　　　why do I [want] this one full of urine and excrement? I don't want
to touch it with my feet."
　　71. If you do n't want to. To ask for such treasures: what kind of
bad views, precepts and prohibitions, life, life, and rebirth do you
think of a womanwho is desired by the king of many people
　　　?
　　"It is not inconceivable that one who desires celestial desires will
not desire human desires, or one who desires human desires will not
desire celestial desires, whoever desires neither, does not use,
desires, desires, desires, and desires neither. Pray, what is your
vision and which vision do you have?" he (Machendia) asked. [The Roman
phonetic version puts this passage here]
　　[Because then, Machendia said:] "If you do not want such treasures:
　　　what kind of evil views, precepts and What do you say about
prohibition, life, survival and rebirth?” [Romanized version]
　　72. [World Honored One: “Mackendia!”] “I say this” does not exist
for him, and he is held firmly after he is selected in the law Hold,
　　　but when the seer does not pick it up in all views, he seesthe
stillness within himself when he leaves.
　　"'I say this' does not exist for him": "'I say this', I say this; I
say this; I say so much; "Permanent"... (abbreviated in the middle) or
"the Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after death". "It does
not exist for him", it does not exist for me. "I said it is within this
range" does not exist for him. Existence." for "I say this" does not
exist for him.
　　"'Makandia', the World-Honored One addressed that Brahmin by name.
'World-Honored One', a synonym for reverence... (abbreviated in the
middle) witnessing Anri (pseudonym), the World-Honored One." For
[World-Honored One: "Makandia! ”].
　　"After being chosen in the law, it is held tightly": "'in the law',
in the sixty-two evil views. "After choosing", after deciding, after
judging, after choosing, after checking, after measuring, after judging
, after separation, after clarification, limited grasp, partial grasp,
top grasp, fixed grasp, accumulation grasp, full accumulation grasp:
"This is true, truthful, true, factual, correct, unreversed" Holding,
grasping, clinging, grasping, believing, he does not exist, does not
exist, is not known, is not discovered, is abandoned, severed, calmed,
ceased, cannot arise , to be burned by the fire of wisdom." To be held
tightly after being chosen in the law.
　　"But the one who sees in all views does not pick it up": When seeing
the fault in all views, I do not hold, do not cling to, do not cling to
the view, or, should not hold, should not grasp, should not
Perseverance. This is so, but the seer does not pick it up after seeing it.
　　Or, "The world is permanent, that's what's real, everything else is
emptiness." This is a badview , a jungle view, a desert view, a
distorted view, a wavering view, suffering and vexation, There is
despair, there is vexation, there is no turning away from disgust,
renunciation, cessation, tranquility, enlightenment, enlightenment,
nirvana. When I see a fault in the views, I don't hold, hold, or cling
to the view, or I shouldn't hold, I shouldn't cling to, I shouldn't
cling to. This is also true, but the seer does not pick it up after
seeing it.
　　Or, "The world is very permanent... (Middle) The worldis bounded...
The world is boundless... Life is the body... Life is one body is
another... The Tathagata exists after death... The Tathagata does not
exist after death ... the Tathagata exists after death and does not
exist... The Tathagata after death neither exists nor does not exist,
this is the real thing, and everything else is empty." This is the evil
view, the jungle view, the desert view, the distorted view, A wavering
view has suffering, affliction, despair, and hot affliction, unreversed
disgust, renunciation of greed, cessation, tranquility, realization of
wisdom, enlightenment, and nirvana. When I see a fault in the views, I
don't hold, hold, or cling to the view, or I shouldn't hold, I shouldn't
cling to, I shouldn't cling to. This is also true, but the seer does not
pick it up after seeing it.
　　Or, "Those who hold this view, those who cling to this view, and
those who have such aspirations, they will have such a future life."
When seeing the faults in the views, I don't hold, don't cling, and
don't cling to the view. , or, should not hold, should not grasp, should
not be attached to. This is also true, but the seer does not pick it up
after seeing it.
　　Or, "This view is hell-oriented, animal-oriented, and
demon-oriented." When I see a fault in all views, I don't hold it, I
don't cling to it, I don't cling to it, or I shouldn't hold it. Hold,
should not cling to, should not be attached to. This is also true, but
the seer does not pick it up after seeing it.
　　Or, "This view is impermanent, conditioned, and produced by
conditions. It is the dharma of cessation, the dharmaof dissipating ,the
dharma of fading away , the dharma of cessation." When I see the faults
in all views, I do not hold or cling to them. , Do not attach to views,
or, should not hold, should not grasp, should not be attached to. This
is also true, but the seer does not pick it up after seeing it.
　　"Seeing the stillness within oneself when Jane is farewell": "The
stillness within oneself is the stillness of greed within oneself; the
stillness of hatred; the stillness of ignorance; the stillness of
anger...the resentful...the hiding of evil...the domineering...the
jealousy the... stingy... the deceitful... cunning... of...all
troubles...all scorched...all hot and vexed...all uncontrived stillness,
stillness, calming, cooling, resting, stillness. 'When you say goodbye',
when you say goodbye; When choosing; when choosing strongly; when
measuring; when judging; when distinguishing; when making clear: " All
formations are impermanent.』When simply distinguishing; when examining
and choosing; when strongly examining and choosing; when valuing; when
judging; when distinguishing; when clarifying, 'all actions are
suffering'... 'all dharmas are without self' When it issimple to
distinguish; when it is selected; when it is selected strongly; When
separate; when clarified. To "see", to see, to see, to see, to
penetrate. "To see the silence within oneself when Jane is parting.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　[The Blessed One: "Makandia!"]
　　"'I say this' does not exist for him, and is held tightly after
being chosen in the Dhamma,
　　　but not picked up by those who see it in all views. , seeing the
stillness within oneself when Jane is parting."
　　73. [Like this Mackenzie:] All judgments of fixed view, Muni! You
really don't pick up those latter
　　　sayings, how can the truth of "silence within oneself" be
proclaimed by the wise?
　　"All judgments of fixed views (overviews)": "Judgments are called
judgments of the sixty-two evil views. 'Asset views (overviews)', built,
fixed, fabricated, and made to live together Or, "What is impermanent,
conditioned, and produced by conditions is the cessation of the law, the
law of dissipation, the law of fading, the law of cessation, and the law
of change." It is also "fixed view"." judgment.
　　"Like this Mackenzie": "Like this", the continuation of sentences;
the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences; the
combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, "like this." "Makandia", the Brahman's name, title,
salutation, Anli (pseudonym), is "[Like this Machendia:]".
　　"Muni! You really don't pick up those things and say, "The truth of
'silence within oneself'": "'Really-those' are sixty-two evil views.
'Muni', 'Muni' iscalled wisdom... ... (Abbreviated in the middle) After
transcending and dyeing the net, he is a Muni." "After not picking up,"
you say: "When I see the fault in all views, I don't hold it, I don't
cling to it, I don't cling to it." And you say: 'Silence within
oneself.' 'All this truth', all the highest truth." For Muni! You really
don't pick up those after saying, "Silence within oneself."
　　"How is it proclaimed by the wise": "'how?', 'question of doubt,
query of perplexity, query of doubt, query of more than one, such are
rhetorical words, interrogative rhetoric, why exactly, why at all "Why?"
"The wise", the wise are the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise,
the wise, the wise. , taught, told, established, uncovered, deciphered,
expounded, explained." For how is it proclaimed by the wise?
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said:
　　[Like this Mackenzie:] "Any judgment of fixed view, Muni! You really
don't pick up those things and say,
　　　whatever the doctrine of 'silence within oneself', How can it be
proclaimed by the wise?"
　　74. [World-Honored One: "Makandia!"]
　　　Not by seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom, nor by virtue of
precepts and restraints,
　　　nor by virtue of With no sight, no hearing, no wisdom, no
precepts, no restraints,
　　　but after giving up and not picking up on these, the peaceful
person will not be eager to have after not relying on it.
　　"Not by seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom": "Seeing is pure,
pure, completely pure; freed from, freed from, freed from everywhere, he
does not speak, does not talk, does not talk, does not explain, does not
speak ; take what he hears as pure, pure, and universally pure; free,
liberated, and universally free, he does not speak, speak, speak,
explain, and speak; see and hear as pure, pure, and universally pure
Freed, freed, completely freed, he doesn't speak, doesn't talk, doesn't
talk, doesn't explain, doesn't speak; takes wisdom as pure, pure,
all-round pure; freed, freed, completely freed, he doesn't say, doesn't
talk, doesn't Talk, don't explain, don't speak." It's not based on
seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom.
　　"'Makandia', the World-Honored One addressed that Brahmin by name.
'World-Honored One', a synonym for reverence... (abbreviated in the
middle) witnessing Anri (pseudonym), the World-Honored One." For
[World-Honored One: "Makandia! ”].
　　"It does not say that precepts and restraints are pure.": "Precepts
are pure, pure, and all-pervasive; free, liberated, and free. Pure,
pure, universally pure; freed, liberated, universally freed, he does not
speak, does not talk, does not talk, does not explain, does not speak;
takes precepts and restraints as pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, universally freed, He doesn't speak, he doesn't talk, he
doesn't talk, he doesn't explain, he doesn't speak." In order not to
speak, the precepts and prohibitions are used to purify.
　　"It is not because of having no view, having nothing to hear, having
no wisdom, having no precepts, having no restraint": Seeing should be
desired, and ten things are right view: "There is generosity, there is
offering, and there is Offerings, there are good deeds and bad deeds,
the fruits and rewards, there are this world, there are other worlds,
there are mothers, there are fathers, there aresentient beings, and
there are righteousand righteous ascetic and Brahmins in the world to
realize wisdom. I will tell this world and other worlds after my
testimony.” Hearing should also be wanted: the voice on the other side,
Shutara, Jiye, Jishuo, Gada, Udana, Such Words, Jātaka, No Dharma,
Viphra. Wisdom should also be wanted: karma's own wisdom, true wisdom,
supernatural wisdom, and so on. Rings should also be wanted: Homemadefor
borati wood forks. Restriction should also be wanted, the eight-headed
tuo-branch: "Forestry branch, constant begging for food, dung-sweeping
cloth, Dan three-clothing, sequential begging for food, not eating after
eating, always sitting [not lying down], staying anywhere "
　　Neither is it because of not seeing, not hearing, not wisdom, not
precept, not restraint": "Not only with right view; not only with
hearing; not only with wisdom; not only with With precepts; not only is
it attained by restraining the stillness within oneself, but it is not
without these dharmas that one obtains the stillness within oneself, but
with these dharmas as sustenance, one can obtain, reach, touch, and
testify to the stillness within oneself. "Because it is not due to
seeing nothing, hearing nothing, having no wisdom, having no precepts,
and having no restraint.
　　"But after giving up and not picking up these": "'These', from the
eradication of the black companion law, abandonment can be wanted; in
the three realms of good law, there is nostate equivalent to the other
can be wanted. When the black companion The Dharma is renounced by the
renunciation of the root, the root has been cut off, [such as] the palm
tree whoseroot has been cut off , becomes non-existent , for the future
unborn thing, and in the three realms of good dharma, it becomes a state
of non-equal to the other, The situation is that he does not hold, does
not cling, does not cling. Or, [these] should not be grasped, should not
be grasped, should not be clinging to." This is true but after giving
up, not picking up these. "When craving and seeing and greed are
abandoned, the root has been cut off, [like] a palm tree whose root has
been cut off, and becomes non-existent, something that will not be born
in the future, this is also the case where he does not hold, do not
grasp, Don't be attached." This is the same, but after giving up and not
picking up these.
　　"When virtuous and non-blessed and immovable actions are discarded,
and the root is cut off, [as] a palm tree whose root has been cut off
becomes non-existence, something that will not be born in the future,
this is also the case that he does not hold, does not Clinging, not
clinging.” This is also the case after giving up and not picking up these.
　　"The quiet one does not aspire to be after he does not rely on it":
"The "quiet one", "the quiet one is the quiet one when greed is
subsided; the quiet one is the quiet one when the hatred is quieted; the
quiet one is the quiet one when delusion is quieted down; the angry ...
resentful... venomous... bossy... jealous... stingy... deceitful...
cunning... stubborn... passionate... slow... extremely slow... sloppy
... let go... all defilements... all evil deeds... all afflictions...
all scorching... all vexations... all unwholesome contrived states of
stillness, calmness, calmness , The state of being extinguished, the
state of cooling, the state of leaving, and the state of being rested
are those who are still, those who are still, those who have calmed
down, those who have cooled down, those who have ceased." For those who
are still.
　　"After not relying on", there are two types Dependence: Dependence
of craving and attachment of view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the attachment of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the
attachment of view. "After giving up the attachment of craving; The
following are those who do not rely on the eyes; those who do not rely
on the ears; those who do not rely on the nose; those who do not rely on
the tongue; those who do not rely on the body; those who do not rely on
the mind; …touches […dharmas]…houses…groups
(congregations)…houses…profits…reputations…praises…music…clothings…foods…houses…the sick need things, medicines Necessities... Desire Realm... Form Realm... Formless Realm... Desire... Form... Formless... Desire... Non-desire... Non-desire, non-desire... One aggregate... Four The five aggregates have...the past...the future...the present...the dharmas that are seen, heard, felt, and can be known are not followed; not grasped, not grasped, not attached. 』For the quiet person who does not rely on it. "There is no desire for existence," there is no desire for desire existence; Will be eager to have.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　[World-Honored One: "Makandia!"]
　　"Not by seeing, not by what is heard, not by wisdom, nor by virtue
of precepts and restraints,
　　　nor by virtue of lack of sight, nor by virtue of Unheard, with no
wisdom, with no precepts, with no restraints,
　　　But after giving up and not picking up these things, the quiet
ones won't be eager to have them if they don't stick to them.
　　75. [Like this Mackenzie: ] If it is true that it is not to see, not
to hear, not to know, nor to say that it is pure by virtue of precepts
and prohibitions,
　　　nor is it because of what is not seen or heard , With no wisdom, a
state of no precepts, and a state of no restraint,
　　　I think it is the method of delusion, and some people return to
seeing as pure.
　　"If it is true that it is not by seeing, not by what is heard, not
by wisdom": "Seeing is pure, pure, completely pure; freed, liberated,
completely freed, you don't speak, don't talk, don't talk, don't
explain, Do not speak; take what you hear as pure, pure, universally
pure; detachment, liberation, universally detached... See and hear as
pure, pure, universally pure; detachment, liberation, universally
detached... Wisdom as pure, Pure, all-round pure; freed, liberated,
freed from everywhere, you don’t speak, don’t talk, don’t talk, don’t
explain, don’t speak.” If it is really not by seeing, not by hearing,
not by wisdom.
　　"Like this Mackenzie": "Like this", the continuation of the
sentence... (abbreviated in the middle). "Makandia", the name of the
Brahmin... (abbreviated in the middle), is "[Like this Machendia:]".
　　"I don't say that precepts and restraints are pure": "Precepts are
pure, pure, and all-pervasive... (middle abbreviated), restrained and
precepts are pure, pure, and all-pure... (middle abbreviated), and
precepts and restraints are pure. You do not speak, you do not talk, you
do not talk, you do not explain, you do not speak.” It is also not said
that precepts and restraints are pure.
　　"It is not because of being without seeing, hearing, without wisdom,
without precepts, without restraint": "It is said: 'Seeing should be
wanted.' I want it.” It is said: “Wisdom should also be wanted.” It
cannot be always (consistently) allowed, nor can it be always opposed.”
This is not because of lack of seeing, hearing, wisdom, and precepts.
state, in a state of no prohibition.
　　"I think it's the law of delusion": "'This is your delusion, the law
of ignorance, the law of ignorance, the law of ignorance, the law of
sophistry.' I think so; I know this; I know so; I say goodbye; I'm so
sure; I'm so perceptive." For me it's delusion.
　　"Some people return to seeing as pure": "Some recluses and brahmins
return to see pure, pure, universally pure; emancipation, liberation,
universal release: some recluses and brahmins return to 'the world is
eternal' , this is the real thing, and everything else is empty.” The
view is pure, pure, and universally pure; emancipation, liberation, and
universal detachment; the world is very permanent… (Abbreviated in the
middle) Some ascetic and brahmins return to the idea of ​​“after death
The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist, this is the real thing,
and the rest is empty.” The view is pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, universally freed.” For some people return to seeing as pure.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said:
　　"[Like this, Mackenzie:] If it is true that it is not by seeing, not
by what is heard, not by wisdom, nor by virtue of precepts and restraints,
　　　nor by virtue of lack of seeing. , With nothing to hear, with no
wisdom, with no precepts, with no restraint,
　　　I think it is the method of delusion, and some people return to
seeing as pure."
　　76. [World Honored One: "Makandia !”] After relying on the view, he
repeatedly questioned, and while holding on tightly, he came to delusion,
　　　but he didn’t see any subtle thoughts from here, so you regarded
(considered) as confused.
　　"After relying on seeing, he questioned repeatedly": "Makandia
Brahmins questioned after relying on seeing, questioning after relying
on attachment, questioning binding after relying on bondage, questioning
after relying on obstacle, questioning obstacle after relying on
obstacle. Repeated questioning." Yi Zhi asked repeatedly after seeing him.
　　"'Makandia', the World-Honored One addressed that Brahmin by name.
'World-Honored One', a synonym for reverence... (abbreviated in the
middle) witnessing Anri (pseudonym), the World-Honored One." For
[World-Honored One: "Makandia! ”].
　　"When you hold on tightly, you come to ignorance": "Whenever that
view is grasped, grasped, attached, grasped, believed and understood by
you, you will become ignorant, confused, and ignorant with your view;
come to ignorance, Come to madness, come to confusion, jump into
confusion." To come to madness in a tight grip.
　　"But he did not see subtle thoughts from here": "From here, from the
stillness within himself, or from the path, or from the teachings of the
Dharma, he did not get the proper thinking, the thinking of reaching,
the thinking of signs, the thinking of causes, Possibilities (places) to
think, where does wisdom come from?” This is so, but I don’t see subtle
thinking from here. Or, "He doesn't get impermanence or goes with
impermanence; suffers or goes with bitter; no-self or goes with no-self;
thinks only of arising or just cognition, where does wisdom come from?"
This is also true but not seen from here Subtle thought.
　　"Therefore you set (considered) as deluded": "'Therefore',
therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that cause is up to
you to set, see, see, watch, contemplate, observe as delusion,
ignorance, Ignorance, ignorance, sophistry." So you call it delusional.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Makandia!'] After relying on the view, he
repeatedly questioned, and in the grip of the grasp, he came to the
delusion,
　　　but he did not see the subtle thoughts from here, so you put
(viewing) ) is deceitful."
　　77. Equal or superior or inferior, whoever thinks he will argue
because of that,
　　　when he is unshakable in the three, he does not think "equal,
superior".
　　"Equal or superior or inferior, whoever he thinks he will argue
because of that": "Whoever thinks 'I am equal' or 'I am superior' or 'I
am inferior', take the slow, See which person he will quarrel with,
quarrel, quarrel, argue, and disagree: "You don't know the law, the law,
I know the law, the law; you know what the law, the law!" You are wrong,
I am right; mine is consistent, yours is inconsistent: what ought to be
said first, then what ought to be said first; what you have mastered for
a long time is reversed; your theories have been Break it down, go and
save [your] theory; you have been subdued, please dismantle it, if you
can.'" As equal or superior or inferior, whoever he thinks he will argue
because of that.
　　"When he is unshakable in the three, he does not think 'equal,
superior'": "To him these three are discarded, cut off, calmed down,
stoked, incapable of arising, by the fire of wisdom The Burning One, he
is unshakable, unshakable in three things, he becomes the unshakable
one: 'I am equal' or 'I am superior' or 'I am inferior'. 'He does not
think' as 'I am do not think.” For when he is unshakable in the three,
he does not think: “Equal, superior.”
　　Because then the Blessed One said:
　　“Equal or superior or inferior, whoever he thinks he will Because of
that argument,
　　　when he is unshakable in the three, he does not think 'equal,
superior'."
　　78. Why would that brahmin say 'truth', or who would he argue with
'fantasy'?
　　　When there is no same or different, with whom will he be involved
in the dispute?
　　"Why would that Brahmin say 'truth'": "Brahman", the exclusion of
the seven dharmas is Brahman... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who do
not rely on it can be called a Brahman. "Why did that brahmin say
'truth'": "Why does the brahmin say, why does it tell, why does it talk,
why does it explain, why does it say: 'The world is eternal, this is the
truth, the rest are Empty." The world is very permanent... (Midden) Why
did Brahmins speak, why would they tell, why would they talk, why would
they explain, why would they say: "After death, the Tathagata neither
exists nor does not exist, this is the truth. The rest are empty.”?” Why
did the Brahmin say “truth”?
　　"Or with whom he will argue 'vague'": "'mine is true, yours is
false.' With what slowness, with what to see with whom a brahmin would
quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel with , make a disagreement: "You
don't know the law, the law... (Abbreviated in the middle) Please
disassemble it, if you can."" For or who would he argue with "vain"?
　　"Those who are not the same or different": "Whoever is ..., who is
human, who is an arahant, who has exhausted all omissions, who is not
slow of "I am equal", who is not who is "I am the winner" The slow one,
the slow one without 'I am inferior,' he does not exist, is not known,
is not discovered, is abandoned, cut off, calmed down, ceased, cannot
arise, and is burned by the fire of wisdom." For where there is no same
or different.
　　"With whom he will dispute": "With what slowness, with what opinion,
will he be able to enter into dispute, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
quarrel, and disagree: "You don't know this law, the law... (Abbreviated
in the middle) Please dismantle it, if you can."" Who would he be
involved in the dispute with?
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Why would that Brahman say 'truth', or with whom would he argue
about 'false'? Who would he have a dispute with
　　　when there was no same or different?"
　　79 . Becoming a wanderer without a place to live, Muni does not
produce (make) intimate contacts in the village,
　　　Those who renounce desires, those who do not expect, do not engage
in arguing with others.
　　At that time, the ownerof the house, Haridhigani, went to see the
Venerable Da Kazanyan. After arriving, he asked the Venerable
Dagajanyanand sat down beside him. The owner of the house, Haridicani,
who was sitting on the side, said this to the Venerable Da Kazanyan: [
SN.22.3 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.3>]
　　" Greatvirtue ! In this eightgroup [sutras] asked by Machendia said
by the Blessed One:
　　"After abandoning his home, he becomes a wanderer without a place to
live. In the village, Munidoes not have (do) intimate contacts, and he
　　　abandons all desires, does not expect, and does not discuss with
others."
　　Great virtue How should this principle of righteousness briefly
stated by the World-Honored One be seen in detail?"
　　"House owner! ; House owner! The perception world is the home of
consciousness, and also, consciousness is bound by the greed of the
perception world, and is called the "walker of the family"; the house
owner! The imaginary world is the home of consciousness, and the
consciousness has the greed of the thought world. The bondage is called
the "walker of the house"; the owner of the house! The world of
formations is the home of consciousness, and the bondage of greed in the
world of consciousness is called the "walker of the house", the owner of
the house! This is the walker of the home.
　　Homeowner! And what is a homeless practitioner? Homeowner! In the
realm of form, all desires, all greed, all joys, all cravings, all
clinging, all clinging, all mind bases, all clinging, all Potential
tendencies of afflictions : these are discarded by the Tathagata, the
roots have been cut off, [For example] a palm treethat has been cut off
from its roots has become non-existent , a thing that will not be born
in the future. Therefore, the Tathagata is called "homeless traveler".
Homeowner! In the subject world... the homeowner! In the imaginary
world... the owner! In the line of business... homeowners! In the realm
of consciousness, all desires, all greed, all joys, all cravings, all
clinging, all clinging, all heart bases, all clinging, all afflictions
and latent tendencies: these have been abandoned by the Tathagata, and
their roots have been cut off. , [such as] a palm tree that has been cut
off from its roots, has become non-existent, something that will not be
born in the future, therefore, the Tathagata is called "homeless
traveler". Homeowner! This is the homeless walker.
　　Homeowner! And what about a walker who [has] abode? Homeowner! From
the diffusion and binding of the abodeof the form , it is called the
"walker of the abode"; the appearance of sound... (abbreviated in the
middle) the appearance of smell... the appearance of taste... the
appearance of touch... The diffusion and binding of the abode from the
appearance of law is called "the abode" "Walker", the owner! Such is the
walker of the dwelling.
　　Homeowner! And what is a walker without a place to live? Homeowner!
The spread and bondage from the abode of the form is cut off by the
Tathagata, the root has been cut off, [such as] the palm tree whose root
has been cut off, becomes non-existence, a future non-born thing,
therefore, the Tathagata is called "the traveler without abode" ; the
appearance of sound... the appearance of smell... the appearance of
taste... the appearance of touch... the diffusion and bondage from the
abode of the dharma are cut off by the Tathagata, the roots have been
cut off, [like] a palm tree with its roots cut off, becomes
non-existent, for the sake of The things that will not be born in the
future, therefore, the Tathagata is called the "walker without abode".
Homeowner! This is a wanderer without a place to live.
　　Homeowner! And what is it like to have close contacts in the
village? Homeowner! Here a certain class of monks abides by being
socialized by lay people, sharing joy and sorrow: becoming joyful among
those who are happy (becoming a joyful one when they are happy), one of
suffering among those who are suffering, intervening with oneself
(Coming to endeavour) {you} [they] have arisen in the duty that should
be done, homeowners! This is how close contacts arise in the village.
　　Homeowner! And how is it that those who do not have close contacts
in the villages? Homeowner! Here, a certain type of bhikkhu dwells not
to be socialized by lay people, not to be joyful, not to be unhappy: not
to be happy among those who are happy, not to be one of suffering among
those who are suffering, not to involve himself in {you}[their] Raise
the duty that should be done, the owner of the house! In this way there
will be no close contacts in the village.
　　Homeowner! And what is one who has not abandoned desires? Homeowner!
Here, certain types of monks are those who are not free fromgreed ,
those who are not free from desire, those who are not free from love,
those who are not free from desire, those who are not free from anger,
those who are not free from craving, the owner of the house! Such is the
one who has not been freed from desires.
　　Homeowner! And what is one who is free from desires? Homeowner!
Here, a certain class of monks is one who is free from greed, one who is
free from desire, one who is free from love, one who is free from
craving, one who is free from heat, one who is free from craving, one
who is free from craving, the owner of the house! This is the one who
renounces desires.
　　Homeowner! And what about the expectant? Homeowner! Here, a certain
class of monks thinks this way: " Iwill have such form in the future"
and he is looking for joy there [ MN.132
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=132>]; there will be such
feelings...there will be such thoughts...there will be such conduct...
"I will have this kind of consciousness in the future. ' He looked for
joy there. Homeowner! This is the hopeful.
　　Homeowner! And what about the non-expectant? Homeowner! Here, a
certain class of monks thinks: "I will have this form in the future and
I will have this form in the future. ' He is not looking for joy there;
there will be such feelings...there will be such thoughts...there will
be such actions..."I will have this kind of consciousness in the future.
' He was not there looking for joy. Homeowner! This is not expected.
　　Homeowner! And what about a talker who argues with people?
Homeowner! Here, someone is making such a talker: "You don't know the
law, the law, I know the law, the law; you know what the law, the law!
You are an evil walker, I am a right walker; what should be said first,
you say later, what should be said later, you say first; mine is
consistent, yours is inconsistent; what you have been practicing for a
long time is reversed; your theories have been If you have been broken
(by being boarded), please go and rescue (get out of) the theory; you
have been shunned, or please untie, if you can. 'Homeowner! Such is the
talker who argues with people.
　　Homeowner! And what about a talker who doesn't argue with people?
Homeowner! Here, the bhikkhu is not a talker like this: "You don't know
this Dharma, the Vinaya... (abbreviated in the middle) or please unravel
it, if you can." 'Homeowner! Such is the talker who does not argue with
people. So, homeowners! In the eight-group [sutra] that the World
Honored One said by Mackenzie:
　　"After abandoning his family and becoming a wanderer without a place
to live, Muni does not produce (make) intimate contacts in the village,
and is free
　　　from desires . Those who give up, those who do not expect, do not
argue with people. '
　　Homeowner! This principle, which is briefly stated by the Blessed
One, should be seen in such detail. "
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said,
　　"After breaking up one's family, one becomes a wanderer without a
place to live. In the village, Muni does not produce (make) close
contacts, one who
　　　abandons all desires, one who does not expect, and who does not
argue with others." Talk about it.”
　　80. In the world, it can be done from those who are far away, but
the dragon and elephant will not pick it up and say those things,
　　　such as aquatic thorns and water lotuses, not polluted by water
and mud,
　　　like this Muni is a quietist, not greedy , uncontaminated in
desire and the world.
　　"From those who are far away in the world can do it": "'From those',
from those evil views. The 'away from', those who have been empty of
evil in their bodies, those who have been separated, those who have been
separated; those who have done evil in words... Acting with
intention...with greed...(Middle abbreviated) with all the unwholesome
to create the empty, the far away, the separated. "Can do", can do, can
abide, can move, can turn around, can protect , able to survive, to
survive. 'In the world', in the world of mankind." For the world to do
from those who are far away.
　　"The dragon elephant won't pick it up and say those things": "Dragon
elephant", "do no crime" is the dragon elephant; "don't go" is the
dragon elephant; "don't come" is the dragon elephant. What is "no crime"
as a dragon elephant? Sins are called evil and unwholesome dharmas:
conforming to pollution, re-occurrence, fear, suffering, future birth,
old age and death.
　　[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 527 verses] Those
　　who do not commit any sin in the world, who have abandoned all
fetters and ties,
　　are not attached to everything, have been liberated, are truly
called those who are like this. For the dragon elephant.
　　This is "no crime" for the dragon elephant.
　　How is "not going" a dragon elephant? Those who do not abandon
desire should not do; those who do not abandon anger should not do;
those who do not abandon delusion should not do; those who do not
abandon fear should not do; do not go away because of greed; do not go
because of hatred; Go away because of ignorance; not because of
slowness; not because of seeing; not because of ignorance; not away
because of doubts; not away because of the potential trend of vexation;
not being carried away by quarrels (disharmony) , carry, carry. This is
"not going" for the dragon elephant.
　　How is "not coming" a dragon elephant? All the contaminations that
are abandoned by the Sudavan Path, those contaminations will no longer
be experienced, will not return, and will not return; those
contaminations that have been abandoned by the Arahant Way will no
longer be experienced; Experience, do not return, do not go back. This
is "not coming" for the dragon elephant.
　　"Dragon elephant will not pick up and say those things": "Dragon
elephant will not hold, grasp, hold, cling to, and cling to those evil
views and then say, talk, talk, explain, say; [will not hold, grasp,
Holding, clinging, and clinging] "The world is eternal... (Abbreviated
in the middle) The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist after
death, this is the real thing, and everything else is empty." After
that, talk about, talk about, Explain, speak." Because the dragon
elephant won't pick it up and say that.
　　"Like water-blooming thorns, water-lilies, uncontaminated by water
and mud": "Elaṃ is called water; ambujaṃ (aquatic) is called lotus;
thorns are called thick-stemmed; vāri is called water; vārijaṃ (aquatic)
) is called lotus, water-generated; jalaṃ is called water; paṅko (mud)
is called mud. Like the aquatic, water-generated lotus, it is not
stained with water, not strongly stained, not closely stained ( Not
polluted), no longer polluted, not completely polluted, no longer
tightly polluted.” It is like an aquatic thorn and water lotus, not
polluted by water and mud.
　　"Muni like this is a man of tranquility, not greedy, not polluted in
desire and the world": "'Like this' is a metaphorical arrangement.
'Muni', Muni is called wisdom... (abbreviated in the middle)
transcendence After being dyed in the net, he is Muni. "Silencer", "Muni
is a silencer, a rescuer, a refugee, a refugee, a terrorist, an
immortal, an immortality, and a Nirvana." It's like this. Muni is a
quietist. "A person who is not greedy", "greed is called craving, that
is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle) greed,
the root of greed is unwholesome. For him, this greed is abandoned. The
one who is cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, burnt by the
fire of wisdom, he is called the one who does not desire, he is the one
who does not desire in form; in sound...in smell...in taste ... on the
touch ... on the home ... on the group (congregation) ... on the
residence ... on the gain ... on the reputation ... on the praise ... on
the music ... on the clothes ... On the group meal... on the
accommodation... on the patient's needs, medical necessities... on the
desire realm... in the form realm... in the formless realm... on the
desire to have... on the form and... ...on formless being...on
thinking...on non-thinking...on non-thinking, non-non-thinking...on the
one aggregate...on the four aggregates...on the five aggregates... In
the past...in the future...in the present...in the things that are seen,
heard, felt, and can be known are those who are not greedy, those who
are not bound, those who are not infatuated, those who are not guilty,
Those who have renounced greed, those who have no greed, those who have
given up greed, those who have eliminated greed, those who have been
liberated from greed, those who have given up greed, those who have
given up greed, those who have abandoned greed, those who have given up
greed, and those who have given up greed Those who have eliminated
greed, those who have been liberated from greed, those who have given up
greed, those who have given up greed, those who do not hunger and
thirst, those who have cooled, those who have become cool, those who
experience happiness, and those who have been born as Brahman. abide."
Because Muni like this is a man of tranquility and not greedy.
　　"Being not polluted in desire and the world", "desire", there are
two kinds of desires from the eulogy: desire for things and desire for
pollution... (middle abbreviated) these are called things desire...
(middle abbreviated) these are called for the desire to pollute. "The
world": the world of suffering, the world of human beings, the world of
gods, the world of khandha, the world of worlds, the world of living
things. "Adhesion", there are two kinds of clinging: the clinging of
[due to] craving and the clinging of [due to] seeing... (Abbreviated in
the middle) This is the clinging of craving... (Abbreviated in the
middle) This is the clinging of seeing . After Munisha has cut off the
attachment to craving and craving, and has cut off the attachment to
view, he is untainted in what he sees; he is untainted, not strongly
attached, not closely attached to desire and the world, no longer
attached, no longer strongly attached, Not tightly contaminated.
Released, departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he abides with a mind
free from limitations. "Because Muni like this is a pacifist, a
non-greedy person, and is not polluted in desire and the world.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"In the world, it can be done from those who are far away, but the
dragon and elephant will not pick it up and say those things,
　　　like the thorns and water lotuses growing in water, not polluted
by water and mud,
　　　like this Muni is a quietist, not greedy One who is not polluted
in desire and the world.”
　　81. Those who know the Veda do not see what they perceive, because
they are not equal to the other, and
　　　they are not guided by karma or heard, and they are in the abode.
He is not to be guided.
　　"Those who know the Vedas do not perceive what they see and what
they perceive": "'No' is negation. "Those who know the Vedas", the Vedas
are called wisdom, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, and choice in the
four realms. Dharma enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana,
right view, those who have reached the ultimate (goal) in the Vedic
life, age and death; those who have reached the ultimate, have reached
the end; those who have reached the end, have reached the limit (the
ultimate) Those who have reached the border, have reached the end; those
who have reached the end, have reached the rescue; those who have
reached the rescue, have reached the refuge; those who have reached the
refuge, have reached the place of refuge; have reached the refuge Those
who have reached the place without fear have reached the one without
fear; have reached the one without fear, have reached the one without
death; have reached the one without death, have reached the undead; have
reached the one without death, have reached nirvana; have reached
nirvana, or have reached the bark The ultimate person of the Dharma is
the one who knows the Vedas, or the one who "has reached the ultimate in
the Vedas" is the one who knows the Vedas, or the known state of the
seven dharmas is the one who knows the Vedas: the one who is aware of
the body is known, who is suspected of being known, Abstinence is known,
greed is known, hatred is known, ignorance is known, slowness is known,
all the evils and unwholesome dharmas are known: obedience to pollution,
reappearance, fear, suffering and retribution, and future birth, old age
and death.
　　[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 534 verses] "
　　Choose all the Vedas, all the ascetic and brahmins that exist here,
　　　free from greed in all feelings, and surpass all the Vedas. One
who knows the Vedas."
　　"Not seeing", "For him, the sixty-two bad views have been abandoned,
cut off, calmed, stopped, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom,
he is not Seeing is carried away, carried away, carried, carried,
without returning, without returning to that evil view as the core.” For
those who are familiar with the Veda, they cannot see. Other voices, or
with public permission, do not come to slowness, do not reach, do not
reach, do not hold, do not grasp, do not cling to." For those who know
the Veda, do not see or feel what they perceive.
　　"Because he is not equal to the other": "not equal to the other
because of craving, because of seeing, that is the highest, that is to
the other shore. Craving and seeing and indifference have been abandoned
for him, The root has been cut off, [as] the palm tree whose root has
been cut off, becomes non-existent, and is not born in the future, this
situation is not equal to that, not that it is the highest, not that it
is to the other shore." He came slowly,} because he was not equal to the
other.
　　"Not being led by karma and not being heard": "'Not being led by
karma', 'Not being carried away, carried away, carried, carried by
either blessed or unblessed karma or immovable karma.' is not to be
karmic. Guided by what is heard', not heard by purity, or by other
voices, or by public permission to carry, carry, carry, carry." In order
not to be guided by karma nor by what is heard.
　　"He is not guided by his residence": "'Traction': There are two
kinds of traction: the traction of craving and the traction of seeing...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the traction of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is The pull of seeing. For him the pull of craving
has been dropped, the pull of seeing has been cut off, and the pull of
craving has been abandoned, the pull of seeing has been cut off, Not
being guided, not polluted, not approached, not defiled, not directed
toward the mind. Having left, left, liberated, freed from fetters, he
lives with a mind free from restrictions. ." For in dwelling he is not
to be led.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"A person who knows the Vedas does not know what he sees, not what
he perceives, because he is not equal to the other, he is not
　　　guided by karma nor by what he hears, and he is not guided by
following in his abode. 82. There is no
　　bondage for those who are detached from thoughts, and there is no
delusion for those who are liberated by wisdom.
　　　Those who hold thoughts and views, they move in the world with
friction.
　　"There is no bondage for one who is detached from thought": "Anyone
who is a practitioner of the Noble Path whose samadhi is the forerunner,
including the initial bondage, has been subdued, and upon reaching the
state of an arahant, for an arahant, the bondage is Knots, delusions,
obstacles, desires, malicious thoughts, harmful thoughts, and visions
are discarded, the root has been cut off, [like] a palm tree whose root
has been cut off, it becomes non-existence, something that will not
arise in the future.” There is no tie for the deceased of thought.
　　"There is no delusion for those who are liberated by wisdom":
"Anyone who is a practitioner of the holy path with Vipassana as the
forerunner, including the initial delusion, has been subdued, and when
he reaches the state of an arahant, for an arahant, delusion, binding
All obstacles, desires, evil thoughts, harmful thoughts, and vision
thoughts are discarded, the root has been cut off, [such as] a palm tree
whose roots have been cut off, become non-existent, and will not be born
in the future." For the liberation of wisdom There is no madness for the
reader.
　　"Those who hold thoughts and sights, they rub against each other in
the world": "Those who hold thoughts: desire, evil, harm, they rub
against each other because of their thoughts: kings and kings They
argue, Kshatriyas argue with Kshatriyas, Brahmins argue with Brahmins,
house owners argue with house owners, mothers argue with sons, sons
argue with mothers, fathers argue with Sons disagree, sons disagree with
fathers, brothers disagree with brothers, sisters disagree with sisters,
brothers disagree with sisters, sisters disagree with brothers, friends
disagree with friends. Fists, clods, sticks, swords attack each other,
and there they suffer death, or suffering like death [ MN.13
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=13>]. Whoever holds it
and sees: "The world is eternal"... (abbreviated in the middle) or
"after The Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist", they rub
against each other because of their views: there is friction between
master and master, there is friction between the narrator of the Dhamma
and the narrator of the Dhamma, there is friction between the group and
the group, the seeing and the seeing There is friction between tracks,
friction between tracks and tracks, and friction between tracks.
　　Or, they argue, quarrel, argue, quarrel, argue, and disagree: "You
don't know this law and law, I know this law and law... (Abbreviated in
the middle) Please dismantle, if you can. ' Their actions are not
discarded, the state of their actions is not discarded. They rub against
things: in hell they rub, in beasts they rub, in hungry ghosts they rub
, in the human world they have friction, in the heavenly world they have
friction, the place of interest and the place of interest... rebirth and
rebirth... rebirth and rebirth... existence and existence...
reincarnation and reincarnation... rebirth and rebirth Circulating them
produces friction, rubs against each other, speaks, moves, dwells, acts,
turns, guards, keeps on, and survives "in the world", in the world of
suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world. "For those who
hold thoughts and visions, they move with friction in the world.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"There is no bondage for those who are free from thoughts, and there
is no delusion for those who are liberated by wisdom. Those who hold
thoughts and views, they 　　move
　　　in the world with friction."
The ninth [completed] of the instructions.

Notes:
　1. Do not take the state of seeing/hearing/wisdom/precepts and
prohibitions, nor the state of not seeing/hearing/wisdom/precepts and
prohibitions, but give up and do not pick up these (Black Companion
Law/Love After seeing slowness/blessings and doing non-blessings and not
doing things), those who are quiet will not be eager to have after they
do not rely on (love/seeing).
　2. Without me waiting / I win / I am inferior, who will he be involved
in a dispute with? Those who hold thoughts and views, they have friction
in the world.
　3. Those who have a family: The world of form, feeling, thinking, and
action is the home of consciousness, and those who are greedy and bound
by consciousness are bound by the world of form, feeling, thinking and
action.
　4. Intimate communication: share joy and sorrow with him.
　12/11/2020 16:37
