Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
10. Explanation of the Antecedents of the Disintegration
　　Next , the Explanation of the Antecedents of Disintegration will say:
　　83. What kind of precepts are the seers, who are called "Silent Ones"?
　　　Gotama! Please tell me about that, the supreme person who was
questioned.
　　"What kind of seer, what kind of precept, is called the 'quiet
one'": "What kind of seer has what kind of vision, what kind of
establishment, what kind of vision, what kind of contrast." What kind of
seer. "What kind of precepts", "what kind of precepts are possessed,
what kind of precepts are established, what kind of precepts, what kind
of contrasts." What kind of precepts are for what kind of seers. "It is
called "the silent one." '', 'called, spoken, told, spoken of,
explained, spoken of as the still, the still, the calm, the cool, the
still. "What kind of seeer" increases wisdom for inquiry; "What kind of
precept" increases morality for inquiry; "Silent person" increases heart
for inquiry. "What kind of precepts for the seers, called "the silent
ones"?
　　"Gautama! Please tell me about that": "'That', whoever I ask;
whatever I ask; whatever I ask; whatever purifies me. 'Gautama
,transforms The surname is called Buddha, the World Honored One. "Please
tell", please tell, please explain, please teach, please inform, please
establish, please uncover, please analyze, please clarify, please
explain." For Gautama! Please tell me about that.
　　"The highest person to be questioned": "The one who is questioned,
the one who is questioned; the one who is interrogated; the one who is
asked; The best, the best, the best, the best person." is the highest
person being questioned.
　　Because of that, the Huaren said,
　　"What kind of precepts are those who see and are called 'the silent
ones'?
　　　Gotama! Please tell me about that, the supreme person who was
questioned.
　　84. [Like this, Blessed One: ] Before the disintegration, he was
separated from craving, he did not depend on his predecessors, and
　　　in the middle he did not deserve to be counted, and for him he was
not valued.
　　"Before the disintegration of the craving": "Before the body
disintegrates; before the self disintegrates; before the corpse is
abandoned; Those who have given up craving, those who have eliminated
craving, those who have been liberated from craving, those who have
given up craving, those who have given up craving, those who have
abandoned craving, those who have no craving, those who have given up
craving, and those who have eliminated craving those who have been
liberated from greed, those who have given up greed, those who have
given up greed, those who are not hungry, those who have cooled down,
those who have become cool, those who feel happiness, and those who live
with themselves as Brahman.
　　"World Honored One", a synonym for respect. In addition, "those who
have destroyed greed" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed
hatred" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed ignorance" are
the Blessed Ones; The thorns are the Blessed One; the one who has
destroyed the pollution is the Blessed One; the one who summarizes,
analyzes, and distinguishes the magic weapon is the Blessed One; "Those
who have practised wisdom" is the World Honored One; or "The World
Honored One is close to the forests, wild forests, and frontier places
(reclining places): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people,
living alone, suitable for sitting alone." World-Honored One; or "The
World-Honored One is a partaker of clothing, food, shelter, the
patients' needs, and medical necessities"; "The World-Honored One" is
the World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is a participator of
the four kinds of jhana, the four immeasurables, the four immaterial
forms, etc." "The World Honored One" is the World Honored One; or "The
World Honored One is the one who cultivates the ten wisdom [ten
thoughts?], the ten bases, the inhalation and the breath, and the
impurity" is the World Honored One; , the four righteous diligence, the
four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
factors of enlightenment, and the eight-fold Noble Path” is the
World-Honored One; The one who realizes the Dharma is the World-Honored
One. "World Honored One", this name was not given (made) by a mother;
not by a father; not by a brother; not by a sister; not by a friend; not
by a relative; not by a recluse or a brahmin This is the ultimate
liberation of the Buddha and the World-Honored One: Anli (pseudonym),
who is under the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition of all
knowledge and wisdom and testimony, is the World-Honored One. ' For
[like this, the Blessed One:] before the disintegration, he was free
from craving.
　　"Does not depend on the previous life": the previous life is called
the past life, the craving for the past life has been abandoned, the
view has been abandoned, the state of craving has been abandoned, the
view has been abandoned , this is not dependent on the previous
situation. In addition, "I had such a form in my past life" does not
seek joy there [ MN.132
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=132>]; I had this kind of
feeling in the past life...I had this kind of thinking in the past
life...I had this kind of behavior in the past life..."I had this kind
of consciousness in the past life" If you don't find (guide) joy there,
it's also irrelevant. terminating. Also, "My eyes were like that in the
past, and form was like that." There, consciousness is not bound by
lust; when consciousness is not bound by lust, it does not like it; when
it does not like it, This is also not dependent on the past. "My ears
are like that in the past tense, and my voice is like that."... (Omitted
in the middle) "My nose is like that in the past tense, and my smell is
like that."..."My tongue is in the past tense. Like that, the taste is
like that."..."My body was like that, the touch was like that."..."My
mind was like that, the Dharma was like that. ." There, consciousness is
not bound by lust; when consciousness is not bound by lust, it does not
rejoice in it; when it does not rejoice [ MN
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=133>. Or, whoever used to
laugh, talk, and play with women, he did not enjoy it, did not desire
it, and did not come to happiness because of it[ AN.7.50
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.50>], which is also not
dependent on the previous situation.
　　"What should not be counted in the middle": "The middle is called
the present tense, the craving for the present tense has been abandoned,
the view has been abandoned, and in the state that craving has been
abandoned, the view has been abandoned The state of mindfulness should
not be counted as a "tainted person", should not be counted as a
"disgusting person", should not be counted as a "foolish person", should
not be counted as a "bound person", Should not be counted as "attached",
should not be counted as "come to distraction", should not be counted as
"come to undesired", should not be counted as "come to fortitude" ”,
those actions (pretends) have been discarded, and when all actions
(pretends) have been discarded, they should not be counted in the
various realms: “those who have fallen into hell”, or “those who have
fallen into the realm of animals”, Or "those who have fallen into the
realm of hungry ghosts", or "people", or "heaven", or "people with
color", or "people without color", or "people with thoughts", or "people
without thoughts", or "people who do not have thoughts" He is not a
person without thoughts.” He has no cause, no predestined relationship,
and no factor to be called the one who will come.” It should not be
counted in the middle.
　　"To him that is not valued": "to him", to an arahant; to one who has
exhausted all effusions. There are two kinds of emphasis on "being
valued": the emphasis [due to] craving and the emphasis [due to] view...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the emphasis of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the emphasis of view. For him, the value of
craving has been abandoned, the value of seeing has been abandoned, and
in the state of the value of craving that has been abandoned, and the
value of seeing has been abandoned, he does not care (do) Craving or
seeing walks ahead and behind, craving is not a flag, craving is not a
banner, craving is not an increase, seeing is not a banner, seeing is
not a banner, seeing is not an increase, not being craved or Seeing to
follow and walk, this is not valued by him. In addition, "I will have
this kind of form in the future life" is not looking for joy there;
there will be such feelings...there will be such thoughts...there will
be such behaviors..."I will have this kind of consciousness in the
future life". He does not seek (guide) joy there, and this is also not
valued for him. In addition, "My eyes will look like that in the future,
and form will look like that." If you don't have hope for what you
haven't attained, if you don't have hope because of the heart, you don't
like it; when you don't like it, it's like this It was also ignored by
him. "My ears are like that in the future, and my voice is like
that."..."My nose is like that, and my smell is like that."..."My tongue
is like that in the future." , the taste is like that."..."My body is
like that in the future, and the touch is like that."..."My mind is like
that in the future, and the law is like that." Yes If the heart does not
have hope, because of the hopelessness of the heart, he does not like
it; when he does not like it, it is not valued for him. In addition, "I
will take this precept, or abstinence, or ascetic, or Brahma to become a
deity, or some deity. [ MN.16
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=16>]" There is no hope
for what is not obtained, because of the hopelessness of the heart , he
does not like it; when he does not like it, this is also not valued to him.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"[Like this, Blessed One:] before the disintegration of what is
detached from craving, that which does not depend on the former,
　　　what should not be counted in the middle, is not valued for him."
　　85 . He who is not angry, who is not afraid, who does not show off,
who does not regret, who
　　　speaks after consideration, who does not hesitate, is indeed a
Muni who has controlled his words.
　　"Those who are not angry, who are not afraid": "Those who are called
'not angry', but only those angers can be said. Anger arises in the form
of ten actions: 'He has acted against me. [ AN. 9.29
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=9.29>]' Anger arises; 'He
will not do me well.' Anger arises; 'He will not do me well.' Anger
arises; ...will be disadvantageous." Anger arises; "He has benefited
(benefited) my unloved, undesired actions...the action is
beneficial...will be beneficial." Anger is raised; Anger arises. Any
hatred, hostility, aversion, hostility, hatred, anger, provocation,
hatred, hatred, wickedness, hatred, hatred, wrath, anger, anger of the
mind like this, anger, anger, state of anger, anger, anger, state of
anger, opposition, hostility, violent anger, rage, unpleasantness of the
heart, this is called anger.
　　Also, the extreme and small state of anger should be perceived :
Sometimes anger is just the degree of a cloudy heart, but it is not
enough to frownTo that extent; sometimes anger is just a frown, but not
as much as clenching your teeth; sometimes anger is just a level of
clenching your teeth, but not as much as swearing; sometimes anger is
just slurring , but not to the extent of looking around (as you observe)
[the stick]; sometimes anger is only to the extent of looking around,
but not to the extent of taking the staff; sometimes anger is only the
extent of taking the staff, but Less than the level of the stick drawn;
sometimes anger is only the level of the stick drawn, but less than the
level of the blow; sometimes anger is only the level of the stick, but
not enough to cut The extent of the interruption; sometimes the anger
just cuts off the interruption, but not as much as it breaks; sometimes
the anger just breaks and breaks, but not as much as each limb is pulled
apart; sometimes Anger is only to the extent that each limb is pulled
apart, but not to the degree of death; sometimes anger is only to the
degree of death, but not to the degree of abandonment and abandonment.
When the angry person kills others and then kills himself, the situation
is one where the anger reaches further prosperity, and further reaches
growth. "Whoever for him this anger is abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
quenched, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called
one who is not angry. Those who are not angry are those who have given
up their anger; those who are not angry are those who are omniscient
about the things of anger; those who are not angry are those who have
renounced the causes of anger. ' for those who are not angry.
　　'Those who are not afraid', here, a class of people is the fearful,
the fearful, the fearful, who trembles, {no?} fear, terror, fear, comes
to fear: 'I can't get home, or I can't get group (congregation), or I
have no shelter, or I have no gain, or I have no fame, or I have no
praise, or I have no pleasure, or I have no clothes, or I have no I
don't get a group meal, or I don't get a bed seat, or I don't get the
patient's needs, medical necessities, or I don't get care, or I'm not
known. ' He trembled, terrified, terrified, terrified, came to dread.
　　Here, a bhikkhu is the one who is not afraid, the one who is not
afraid, the one who is not afraid, who does not tremble, who is not
afraid, who is not afraid, who is not afraid, who does not come to fear:
'I can't get a home, or I can't get a group (congregation), Or I have no
shelter, or I have no gain, or I have no fame, or I have no praise, or I
have no pleasure, or I have no clothes, or I have no food, Or I don't
get a bed seat, or I don't get patient needs, medical necessities, or I
don't get care, or I'm not known. ' He does not tremble, he is not
afraid, he is not afraid, he is not afraid, he does not come to fear.
"For those who are not angry, who are not afraid.
　　"Those who do not show off, those who do not regret": "'Here, there
is a certain class of people who are boasters, those who show off, who
boast and show off: I am a "one who is full of precepts," or "one who is
full of restraint," or "one who is full of precepts and restraints." or
"by birth, or by surname, or by good family son, or by beauty as a lotus
flower, or by property, or by research (acquisition), or by profession,
or by skill, or by knowledge ( Academics), or by hearing, or by
eloquence, or by something, or from a noble family", or "from a great
family," or "from a wealthy family," or "from a wealthy family," Family
ordained", or "the same household and monks are well-known and famous",
or "the gainer in clothing, food, shelter, necessities of the sick,
medical necessities", or "sutra teacher", or "Lawyer (law-holder)", or
"talker", or "living in the forest", or "constant begging", or "wearing
dung and sweeping clothes", or "but three-clothed", or "sequential
begging" "one who does not eat after eating", or "one who sits [not
lying down]", or "one who lives everywhere", or "one who attains the
first jhāna", or "one who attains the second jhāna", or "One who has
attained the third jhāna", or "one who has attained the fourth
jhāna...the boundless space of emptiness...the boundless
consciousness...the place of nothingness...or the place of neither
thought nor non-ideal thought. The one who gets it", he boasted and
showed off. In this way he does not boast or show off. Separated from
boasting, ostentation, abstinence, abstinence, renunciation, departure,
liberation, and bondage, he abides with a mind free from limitations. '
for those who do not show off.
　　"Those who do not regret", "regret", the inaction of the hands (evil
deeds) is regretted, the inaction of the feet is also regretted, the
inaction of the hands and feet is also regretted, the inappropriate is
thought (considered) as appropriate, Appropriate was thought
inappropriate, inopportune was thought inopportune, timely was thought
inopportune, sinless was thought sinful, sinful was thought innocuous,
who regrets like this , the path of regret, the state of regret, the
regret of the heart, the confusion of the mind, this is called regret.
　　Furthermore, regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind arise
from two factors: what is done and what is not done. How does what is
done and what is not done cause regret, regret in the heart, and
confusion in the mind? "I did evil deeds, but I didn't do good deeds. '
He had regrets, regrets in the heart, confusion in the mind; ' He
generates regret, regret in the heart, confusion in the mind; 'I have
done killing, and the abstinence from killing has not been done by me. '
He generates regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind; ' Regret
arises in him, repentance in the heart, confusion in the mind; ' Regret
arose in him, regret in the heart, confusion in the mind; 』…… 『I made
the slander, and the abstinence of slander was not made by me. 』…… 『I
did the foul language, and I did not do the abstinence of foul language.
'...'I made profanity, and I did not do the abstinence of profanity.
』……『Greedy was done by me, not greed was not done by me. 』……『I did
it maliciously, but I didn't do it without malice. 』…… 『The wrong view
was done by me, but the right view was not done by me. ' He produces
regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind, and thus repentance,
regret of mind, confusion of mind arise from what is done and what is
not done.
　　Or, "I am not a full branch on the ring. ' He arises regret, regret
of mind, confusion of mind; 'I am not the one who guards the gates on
the roots. 』……『I am not a person who knows the right amount of food.
'... 'I am not a sobriety specialist. '... 'I do not possess mindfulness
and clear knowledge. '... 'The four mindfulness-absences have not been
practised by me. '... 'The four righteous diligences have not been
practiced by me. '... 'The four divine feet have not been practiced by
me. '...'The five faculties have not been cultivated by me. '...'The
five powers have not been practiced by me. '...'The seven factors of
enlightenment have not been practised by me. '...'The Noble Eightfold
Path has not been practised by me. '... 'Suffering is not known to me.
』…… 『The set has not been discarded by me. '... 'The Tao has not been
practised by me. '... 'Destruction has not been witnessed by me. ' He
generates regret, regret of mind, confusion of mind. Whoever for him
this regret has been discarded, cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to
arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called one who has no
regrets. "For those who do not show off and those who do not regret.
　　"Those who speak after consideration, those who do not give up":
""After consideration is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) no delusion, choice of the
law, right view. When speaking a lot; when speaking a lot When he speaks
a lot; when he speaks a lot, he thinks, explores, explores, and then
speaks; ." To consider the latter speaker. "Those who do not lift up",
where, what is uplifting? All the uplifting of the mind is not quiet;
the distraction of the mind; the confusion of the mind, this is called
uplifting. He says that this delusion has been abandoned, cut off,
calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, and
he is called the one who does not abandon it. By.
　　"He is indeed a Muni who has controlled his speech": "Here, after a
bhikkhu has given up lying, he is the one who renounces lies, one who
speaks truth, one who is true, one who is reliable, one who can be
trusted, one who does not deceive the world. After the language, is the
divisive talker: after hearing from here, not for the division of those
who speak there, or after hearing from there, not for the division of
those who speak here, like this, the mediator of the division, or The
giver of peace, the one who loves harmony, the one who loves harmony,
the one who likes harmony, the one who speaks harmony words. After
giving up harsh words, they are those who renounce harsh words, whoever
is gentle, pleasant, lovely, and tempting. A speech that is elegant,
that is pleasing to all, that that is pleasing to all, is the speaker of
such speech. When the profanity is cut off, it is the one who is free
from profanity: the speaker of the right time, the speaker of the fact,
the speaker of the beneficial , One who speaks of the law, one who
speaks of the law, one who speaks of value (with storage), justified at
the right time, with moderation, with accompanying interests [ AN.4.198
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.198>]. He possesses
four kinds of good speech and deeds, Speaking of four kinds of no-fault
words, he should have separated from the thirty-two kinds of animalism,
abstained, abstained, renounced, left, liberated, and freed from
fetters, and he lived with a mind free from limitations.
　　He said ten things to talk about, namely: the theory of less
desires, the theory of contentment...the theory of solitude...the theory
of non-communication...the theory of vitality...the theory of
precepts...the theory of conclusion...the theory of wisdom...the theory
of liberation...the theory of liberation The theory of wisdom and
view...the theory of mindfulness...the theory of right diligence...the
theory of the foot of the gods...the theory of the root...the theory of
strength...the theory of enlightenment...the theory of the Tao...the
theory of fruit, the theory of nirvana. "Speech is controlled" is
prudence "Muni", Munais called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the law, right view... ... (Abbreviated in the middle) After
transcending and dyeing the net, he is a Muni." Because he is indeed a
Muni who has restrained his words.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He who is not angry, who is not afraid, who does not show off, who
does not regret, who
　　　speaks after consideration, who does not lose his mind, is indeed
a Muni who has controlled his speech."
　　86. As for the unbound in the future, he does not lament the past,
　　　in touch he sees the far away, in seeing he is not guided.
　　"Those who are unbound in the future": Attachment is called craving,
which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. Whoever for him this clinging,
craving is abandoned, severed, calmed down, quenched, unable to arise,
burned by the fire of knowledge, such is the one who will be free from
bondage in the future. In addition, "I will have this kind of form in
the future life" there is no search for (guidance) joy; there will be
such a feeling...there will be this kind of thinking...there will be
this kind of behavior..."I will have this kind of behavior in the future
life. Consciousness" does not seek joy there, and thus is boundless in
the future. In addition, "My eyes will look like that in the future, and
form will look like that." If you don't have hope for what you haven't
attained, if you don't have hope because of the heart, you don't like
it; when you don't like it, it's like this It is also a writer who is
unbound in the future. "My ears are like that in the future tense, and
my voice is like that."... (Abbreviated in the middle) "My mind is like
that in the future tense, and the law is like that." Because of the
hopelessness of the mind, one does not like it; when one does not like
it, it is also boundless in the future. In addition, "I will take this
precept, or abstinence, or asceticism, or Brahma to become a deity, or
some deity." If you have no hope for what you have not obtained, if you
have no hope because of the heart, you will not be happy with it. ; when
one does not like it, it is also boundless in the future.
　　"He does not lament the past": "He does not mourn what has changed,
or what is in transition: 'My eyes have been changed.' He does not
mourn; my ears...my nose...my tongue ...my body...my look...my
voice...my smell...my taste...my touch...my home...my group
(congregation)...my abode... ...my gain...my reputation...my praise...my
pleasure...my clothing...my food...my bed base...my patient's needs,
medical necessities...my mother ...my father...my brother...my
sister...my son...my daughter...my friend...my colleague...my kin..."My
relatives have changed 'He does not mourn, or weary, or weep, or beat
his breast, and weep, nor come into confusion." He does not mourn the
past for him.
　　"On touch sees the far away": eye-contact, ear-contact,
nose-contact, tongue-contact, body-contact, mind-contact, name-contact,
opposite-contact [DN.15
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=15>], should experience
pleasant touch, should experience painful touch, should experience
neither pain nor pleasure, wholesome touch, unwholesome touch,
non-remembering, desire realm, form realm, formless realm, Empty
contact, contactless contact, unwilling contact, mundane contact,
supramundane contact, past contact, future contact, present contact, any
state of contact like this, contact, full contact, full contact is
called contact.
　　"On touch sees the far away": "With me, or with what I am, or with
constant, or with constant, or with constant, or with constant change,
he sees the eye-contact as far away... He sees the ear-contact as far
away... he sees away from the nose... he sees away from the tongue... he
sees the body as far away... he sees the mind as far away... he sees the
name as far away... he Seeing that there is something far from
contact... should feel pleasant contact... should feel unpleasant
contact... should feel neither painful nor pleasant contact... wholesome
contact... unwholesome contact... no memory contact... desire realm
Touch... Form-realm touch... Formless touch... With me, or with what I
am, or with constant, or with lasting, or with constant, or with
constant change, he sees the world's touch as far away
　　. He sees the past touched by the future and the present; he sees
the future touched by the past and the present; he sees the present
touched by the past and the future; , those who are touched by greed he
sees and shunned; by hatred, by ignorance, by anger, by resentment, by
hiding evil, by domineering, by jealousy, by stinginess, by deceit, by
cunning, by stubbornness, by passion, by arrogance With extreme
slowness, with humiliation, with lethargy, with all pollution, with all
evil deeds, with all afflictions, with all scorching heat, with all
vexation, with all unwholesome things he sees and keeps away." See the
far away.
　　"He is not guided by view": "To him, the sixty-two bad views have
been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by
the fire of wisdom, and he is not carried away by view , take away,
carry, carry, and do not return, do not return to that evil view as the
core." Because he was not led in the view.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"In the future, the unbound one does not mourn the past;
　　　in the touch he sees the far away, in the sight he is not led."
　　87. Those who have withdrawn, those who are not scheming, those who
are not eager, those who are not stingy, those who are
　　　not arrogant, those who are not disgusting, and those who are not
keen on alienation.
　　"Those who have withdrawn, those who are not scheming": "The person
who has withdrawn," the withdrawn state of greed is withdrawn; the
withdrawn state of hatred is withdrawn; the withdrawn state of delusion
is withdrawn ; angry... resentful... hideous... domineering...
jealous... stingy... (abridged) all unwholesome and pretentious ones
have given up and have quit. This is said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus
And how is a bhikkhu who has withdrawn? Bhikkhus! Here, the bhikkhu's
slowness of being has been abandoned, the root has been cut off, [like]
a palm tree whose root has been cut off, becoming non-existent, unborn
for the future Things, Bhikkhus! Bhikkhus like this are those who have
withdrawn. [ AN.4.38
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.38>]”” means those who
have withdrawn.
　　"Non-tricksters", there are three kinds of tricks: the tricks of the
equipment and the tricks, the tricks of the behavior, and the tricks of
the surrounding words.
　　What are the tricks of the utilitarian scheme? Here, the
homeownersprovide clothing, food, abode, what the sick needs, medical
necessities invite a bhikkhu, who is an evil craving, a desiring person,
a desiring person, who expects more for clothing, food, shelter,
sickness, medical necessities and refuses clothing, refuses food,
refuses Shelter, refusal of the patient's needs, medical necessities, he
said: "What does a monk do with high-value clothes! It is appropriate
for a monk to wear rags from the mounds or from the rubbish dumps or
from the front of the store to make a coat. What does it mean to a
recluse to feed with high value! It is appropriate that any ascetic
should live on a small lump of food while gleaning. What does a
high-value dwelling have to a Samana! It is appropriate that a recluse
should be one who lives under a tree or in a mound or in an open field.
With high-value patient needs and medical necessities, what does it mean
to a monk! It is appropriate that any ascetic should use the medicine
fermented with cow urine or crushed halile. ' After grasping that, he
wears coarse clothes; receives coarse food; lives in coarse dwellings;
The owners of the house knew him this way: "This ascetic is one who has
less desires, one who is contented, one who lives alone, one who is away
from the crowd, one whose vitality has been activated, one who speaks of
the dharma. ' They are more and more invited with clothing, food,
shelter, the needs of the sick, the necessities of medicine. He said:
"In the present state of the three states, a man of good faith produces
many merits: in the present state of faith, a man of good faith produces
many merits, and a man of good faith produces many merits, and a man of
good faith produces many merits, which are worthy of offering. In the
current state, there are many good-faith men who have good faith. You
are the believer, and the gift exists (to be found), and I am the
recipient, if I do not accept, then you will be outsiders of the
blessing, this is not necessary for me, but just for pity You, I accept.
' After clinging to that, he received many clothes, many alms, and many
lodgings, and many sick things, medical necessities. The frown of those
who frown like this; the path of the deceitful man, the state of the
deceitful man, this is the deceitful thing that is capable of being used.
　　What is the tricky thing about behavior tricks? Here, a certain
class of those who desire evil, those who desire nature, those who
desire respect [thought]: 'Then people will respect me. ' He sets to
walk, sets to stand, sets to sit, sets to lie down, walks for desires,
stands for desires, sits for desires, lays down for desires, walks as
those who are in concentration, walks as if they are in concentration.
stand as a meditator, sit as a meditator, lie down as a meditator,
become visible as a meditator. Any placement of deeds like this,
enhanced placement, full placement; frowns of frowns; deceitful paths of
tricksters, state of trickery, this is the tricky thing of deeds of deeds.
　　What are the tricks of the surrounding language tricks? Here, some
kind of evil-desiring, desiring-nature, desiring-respect [thought]:
'Then people will respect me. ' He spoke according to the Dhamma, and he
said: 'Whoever dresses like this is a recluse of great power. ' He said:
'Whoever bears a bowl like this...holds a copper bowl...a water
filter...a water filter bag...a key...wears shoes...a belt...a lace...he
is a great power sramana. ' He said: 'Whoever his monksare like this is
a monk of great power. ' He said: 'Anyone whose teacheris like this...a
monk who is like this...a teacher who is like
this...friend...acquaintance...closer...companion...he is a monk of
great power. ' He said: 'Whoever lives in such a dwelling is a recluse
of great power. ' He said: 'Whoever lives in a half-roofed house like
this... lives in a high-rise...in a flat...in a cave...in a cave...in a
hut (solitary mansion)...in a heavy The pavilion... lived in the
lookout... in the round house... in the shack... in the lecture hall...
in the tent... under the tree... He was the monk of great power. '
　　Or, one who keeps frowning; one who keeps frowning; one who keeps
scheming; one who keeps nagging; one who is revered for his mouth, he
says deep, secret, subtle, secret, otherworldly, Talking about
emptiness: "This ascetic received this silent abode like this and
waited. ' The frown of those who frown like this; the path of the trick,
the state of the trick, this is the trick of the surrounding language.
To him these three kinds of tricks: the tricks of being used, the tricks
of behavior, the tricks of the surrounding language have been dropped,
cut off, calmed down, stopped, can't arise, been Wisdom fire burner, he
is called non-trickster. "For those who have withdrawn, not those who
are scheming.
　　"Those who are not eager, who are not stingy": ""Desire is called
craving, and that is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed,
the root of unwholesome greed. To him this craving, craving has been
abandoned, The one who is cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to
arise, burnt by the fire of wisdom, he is called the one who does not
desire, the forms he does not desire...the sounds...the smells...the
tastes...the touches. [dharmas]...family...group
(congregation)...abode...a gain...a reputation...a compliment...a
pleasure...clothing...a food...a place to live...the patient's needs,
medical necessities...the world of desires ...the realm of form...the
realm of formlessness...desire to be...form to be...formless
to...thinking to be...non-thinking to be...non-thinking, non-thought to
be...one aggregate...four aggregates...five aggregates There are...the
past...the future...the present...the seeing...the hearing...the
feeling...the dharmas that he does not desire, want, accept, hope for,
or desire." Those who are eager for. "Those who are not stingy", there
are five kinds of stinginess: [to] stingy at home, stingy at home,
stingy with gain, stingy with praise, stingy with Dharma, all such
stingy, stingy appearance, stingy state, greed , stingy, stingy, and the
state of mind clenched, this is called stingy. Besides, being stingy is
also being stingy; being stingy in the world is also being stingy; being
stingy is also the obsession of being stingy, and this is called
stinginess. The one who is abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stopped,
unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called the one who
is not stingy." The one who is not eager, the one who is not stingy.
　　"Those who are not arrogant, those who do not hate": "'Pride', there
are three kinds of arrogance: arrogance of the body, arrogance of
speech, arrogance of the heart. What is arrogance of the body?
Arrogance, showing the arrogance of the body in the group, showing the
arrogance of the body in the cafeteria, showing the arrogance of the
body in the bathroom, showing the arrogance of the body in the bath,
also showing the arrogance of the body when entering the laity, Even
when he has entered the lay family, he shows the arrogance of the body.
　　What is the arrogance of the body when he comes to the sangha? Here,
a certain type of people who come into the sangha are not respected.
When they touch the elder monks, they stand up and when they touch When
he touched, he sat down, stood in front of [the elder monks], sat down
in front, sat down on a high seat, sat down with his head covered, he
stood and spoke, waving his arms and speaking, in this way he came to
the Sangha Show physical arrogance.
　　What is the arrogance of coming into the group to show the body?
Here, a certain type of people who come into the group are not
respected. For elders and monks who walk without shoes, they walk in
shoes, for those who walk in low places, they walk in high places, and
for those who walk on the ground, they walk in Going by the way, he
stands when touched, he sits when touched, stands in front, sits in
front, sits on a high seat, sits with his head covered, he stands and
speaks, Talking with waving arms, this is the arrogance of coming into
the group to show the body.
　　How to show physical arrogance in the cafeteria? Here, there is a
certain type of person who is not respected in the cafeteria, he invades
the elder monks and sits down, blocks the new monks with his seat, he
stands when touched, he sits when touched, stands in front, in front
Sitting down, sitting down on the high seat, sitting down with his head
covered, he spoke while standing and waving his arms to speak, showing
his physical arrogance in the cafeteria.
　　What is it like to show physical arrogance in the bathroom? Here, a
certain type of person is not respected in the bathroom, he stands when
he touches the elder monks, he sits when he touches, stands in front,
sits in front, sits on a high seat, does not ask after Putting in the
firewood, closing the door without being asked, waving your arms and
talking, this is showing physical arrogance in the bathroom.
　　What is the arrogance of showing the body in the bath? Here, there
is a certain type of person who is not respected in the baths, when he
touches the elder monks he jumps in, he jumps in front, when he touches
he bathes, in front, and above, when he touches he goes from Out of the
water, out of the water in the front, out of the water in the top, this
is the arrogance of the body in the bath.
　　What is it like to show bodily arrogance when entering a layman?
Here, a certain type of person who is not respected when entering the
lay family, walks in front of the elder monks when he touches the
elders, and walks in front of the elder monks again and again after
escaping the right path, thus entering the lay family. When showing
physical arrogance.
　　What is the arrogance of the body when one has entered the lay?
Here, when a certain type of people has entered the lay family, they are
called "Great virtue! Please don't [want to] enter" he entered when it
was said, when "Dude! Please don't [to] stand" when he was said to
stand, be "Dude! Please don't [sit] down." He sat down when it was said,
and he entered when there was no room, he also stood when there was no
room, and he also sat down when there was no room, the inner chamber of
the layman, the hidden, the secret: the layman Where women, lay women,
lay women, lay girls sit, he also enters roughly, and he also touches
the heads of boys. This is the arrogance of the body when he has entered
the lay. It's showing bodily arrogance.
　　What is the arrogance of showing words? Here, a certain type of
people come to the Sangha and show the arrogance of words, they come
into the community and they show the arrogance of words, and they also
show the arrogance of words when they have entered the laity.
　　What is the arrogance of coming to the Sangha to show words? Here, a
certain type of people who come to the sangha are not respected, after
not asking the elder monks, or without being asked, and speaking to the
monks who have entered the monastery, answering questions, reciting the
paratimus, he stands Talking, waving your arms and talking, this is the
arrogance of coming into the Sangha to show the words.
　　What is the arrogance of coming into a group to show verbal
arrogance? Here, a certain type of person comes into the group as a
person who is not respected. After not asking the elder monks, or
without being asked, he preaches and answers questions to the monks who
have entered the monastery. The bhikkhunis, upasakas, and upasakas in
the garden spoke and answered questions. He stood and spoke, waving his
arms to speak. This is the arrogance of his speech when he came into the
group.
　　What is the arrogance of showing words when one has entered the lay?
Here, a certain class of people, having entered the lay family, said to
a woman or a girl: "What is there with a name like this, with a surname
like this: Is there milk porridge, food, hard food? What will we drink?
What will we eat? What will we chew? Or what: what will you give me? '
He murmured, whoever speaks like this, who is unhelpful, who is
mumbling, who is in a state of babble, babble, and babble, is the
arrogance of his speech when he has entered the lay. This is the
arrogance of words.
　　What is the arrogance of the heart? Here, a certain type of people
who are not from aristocratic families and those who are slow consider
themselves to be the same as those who are monks from aristocratic
families, and those who are slow who do not come from big families
consider themselves (see) themselves and those from big families. Those
who are monks are equal together, those who are not from the wealthy
family are slow, and those who are not from the wealthy family consider
themselves to be the same as those who are monks from the wealthy
family. The slow person regards himself as the same as the sutra
teacher, the slow person who does not uphold the law... the slow person
who does not speak the word... the slow person who does not live in the
forest... the slow person who is very begging... There are slow people
who don't wear dung-sweeping clothes... Not only those who wear three
clothes, there are slow people... There are slow people who are not
sequential begging... There are slow people who don't eat after
eating... There are slow people who sit very much [not lying down].
...not those who live everywhere, those who are slow... Those who are
slow, who have not attained the first jhāna, regard themselves as equal
to those who have attained the first jhāna... (abbreviated in the
middle) those who have not attained either, nor the one who has attained
the place of imagining. The arrogant person regards himself with the
heart as the same as the person who waits for the place to be. This is
the arrogance of the heart. "Whoever to him these three kinds of
arrogance are abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stoked, unable to arise,
burnt with the fire of wisdom, he is called a person who is not
arrogant. ' for those who are not arrogant.
　　"Those who do not hate", there are those who hate, and there are
those who do not hate. What is a disgusting person? Here, a certain
class of people are those who break the precepts, those who do evil,
those whodo unclean and suspicious actions, those whoact in secret,
those who arenot ascetics but call themselves ascetics, those who are
not Brahmanswho call themselves Brahmas, those who leak from the inside,
those who have bad characters [ AN.7.72
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.72>], this is called
the abomination. Or, he is the one who has anger, is conquered by anger,
and when spoken a little, he is angry, angry, hatred, resists, showing
anger, hatred, dissatisfaction [ AN.3.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.25>], this is called a
person of aversion. Or, he is an angry person, a resentful person, a
person who hides evilThe tyrannical, the jealous, the stingy, the
cunning, the deceitful, the stubborn, the sluggish, the greedy, the
wrong-viewer, the stubborn, the stubborn, the hard to give up [ AN .6.36
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.36>], this is called
the abomination.
　　What is a person who does not hate? Here, the monk is the
precept-keeper, who lives underthe protection of the self-control of the
Paratimkha, who is endowed with rightconduct and conduct, who sees
terrible things in the midst of petty sins, who learns after being
upheld in various disciplines[ AN.2.37
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=2.37>], This is called a
person who is not averse. Or, he is a person who is not angry, always
without anger, and when he is said a lot, he is not unhappy, not angry,
not angry, not resisting, not showing anger and hatred and
dissatisfaction [ MN.135
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=135>], which is called a
person who does not hate. Or, he is not angry, not resentful, not hiding
evil, not tyrannical, not jealous, not stingy, not cunning, not
deceitful, not stubborn, not extremely slow , those who do not hate
desires, those who do not have wrong views, those who are not stubborn,
those who are not stubborn, and those who are easy to give up, this is
called the person who does not hate. All ignorant ordinary people are
those who hate it, and ordinary people who are good, including the eight
kinds of sages, are those who do not hate it. "For those who are not
arrogant, who are not disgusting.
　　"And those who are not keen on divisive talkers": "'Different
talkers', here, a certain class of people is divisive talkers, and after
he hears it here, he speaks there in order to alienate these people, or,
after he hears it from there, To say here to alienate those who, as
such, he is the destroyer of reconciliation, the spreader of division,
the discordant, the discordant, the discordant, the discordant, and this
is called For alien speakers.
　　Furthermore, divisive language arises for two reasons: by desire to
be lovable, or by desire to be divisive. How to produce alienation with
desire to be lovely? "To this one I shall be lovely, I shall be
agreeable, I shall be intimate, I shall be intimate, I shall be
affectionate. ' This is a divisive language based on the desire to be
cute. How to produce divisive language with split desire? "How these can
become various, can become separation, can become divided, can become
two kinds, can become contradiction, can become two factions, cause
rupture, do not cause reunion, and cause abiding in suffering and
unhappiness. ' This is the desire for division to produce divisive
language. Whoever to him this alienation is abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, stoked, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is not
keen on alienation, not yoked, not strongly yoke Who [, who is not fully
yoke, who does not face the yoke], who is not fully yoke. ” for and
those who are not keen on alienating language.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Those who have withdrawn, those who are not scheming, those who are
not eager, those who are not stingy, those who are
　　　not arrogant, those who are not disgusting, and those who are not
keen on alienating talkers."
　　88. There is no flow in satisfactory Those who leak, and those who
are not enthusiastic about
　　　extreme slowness, those who are soft and those who are eloquent,
those who are unbelievers, they are inseparable from being infected.
　　"Those who have no leakage in what is satisfactory": "What is
satisfactory is called the five desires. For what reason is it called
the five desires? With most gods and people wanting, accepting, The five
desires, desire, desire, desire, are called the five desires that are
satisfactory for that reason. For whoever does not give up this
satisfactory craving for him, it flows out of the craving for the color
of the eye. , produce (Thai version), flow, turn up; craving for the
sound of the ear... craving for the smell of the nose... craving for the
taste of the tongue... craving for the touch of the body...  The craving
of the mind-dharma flows, arises, flows, arises. Whoever for him this
craving which is satisfactory to him is let go, is cut off, is calmed
down, ceases, cannot arise, and is burned by the fire of wisdom, It does
not flow, does not arise, does not flow, and does not turn up because of
the craving of the eye form; because of the craving for the sound of the
ear... (abbreviated in the middle) the craving due to the Dharma of the
mind does not flow, does not arise, does not flow, and does not arise.
Turn up." For those who have no leakage in satisfaction.
　　"And those who are not enthusiastic about extreme slowness": "What
is extreme slowness? Here, a certain type of people either despise
others by birth, or by surname... (abbreviated in the middle) or by
something. Those who are slow, think, The situation of thought, the
high, the high, the low, the flag, the high, the vanity of the mind,
this is called the extreme slowness. For whoever this extreme slowness
is discarded, cut off, calmed down, ceased, cannot arise, He who is
burnt by the fire of wisdom, he is very slow, not zealous, not yoke, not
strongly yoke [, not fully yoke, not toward yoke], not fully toward
yoke.” And those who are not keen on extremely slow.
　　"The soft and the eloquent": "The 'soft', 'having soft bodily kamma'
is soft, soft speech... 'Having soft mind' is soft, 'having soft
mindfulness' ' is the soft one, the soft righteousnesses...the soft god
feet...the soft roots...the soft powers..."has the soft enlightenment
factors" is the soft one, "has the soft Eightfold Path." ” is the soft one.
　　“With the eloquent person,” there are three kinds of eloquent
people: the learned eloquent person, the eloquent eloquent person, and
the realized eloquent person. What is a learned eloquent person? Here, a
certain type of people originally Those who have learned it: Shutara,
Chiye, Jishuo, Gada, Udana, Such Words, Jātaka, No Dharma, Viphra,
according to what he has learned, is defended, this is a learned
eloquent. What is an eloquent apologist? Here, a certain type of person
is the one who asks all the time about his own interests, the interests
of righteousness, characteristics, reasons, possibility and
impossibility (disposal of injustice), and he is answered according to
his repeated questioning. This is a universal question. eloquent. What
is a proven apologist? Here, a certain type of person is the attainment
of the four mindfulness, the four right effort, the four spiritual feet,
the five faculties, the five powers, the seven enlightenment factors,
the eight noble paths, the four ascetic fruits, the four eloquence, and
the six supernatural powers. It is those who know the truth, the law,
and the word. The truth is answered on the known principle, the law is
answered on the known law, and the word is answered on the known word.
There is no eloquence about these three kinds of wisdom.
Obstacle-interpreting wisdom, possessed, fully possessed, reached, fully
reached, possessed, fully possessed, possessed of this eloquence without
hindrance to understanding, he is called a person with eloquence.
Without learning, without asking, and without realizing, what will he
defend? "For the soft and the eloquent.
　　"The unbeliever, he is inseparable from the defiled": "The
unbeliever", the Dhamma that has been personally proven and
self-realized to any other ascetic, or Brahmin, or god, or man, or
Brahma does not believe: "All actions are impermanent. It is proved by
oneself... (Abbreviated in the middle) "All actions are suffering"...
"All dharmas are without self"... "With ignorance as a condition, there
are actions (and actions exist)"... (Abbreviated in the middle) "With
birth as a condition, there is old age and death"..."With the cessation
of ignorance, there is the cessation of formations (and the cessation of
formations exists)"...(Abbreviated in the middle) "With the cessation of
birth, there is the cessation of old age and death"..."This is
suffering"... ) "This is the pathleading to suffering"..."These are
afflictions"...(Abbreviated in the middle) "This is the path leading to
the path of ignorance"..."These dharmas should be realized"...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "These dharmas should be Witnessed by
oneself... (Abbreviated in the middle) The arising, cessation and
disappearance of the six bases of contact, pleasure, misfortune, and
renunciation... The formation of the five aggregates of clinging...
(Abbreviated in the middle) The arising and cessation of the four
elements No, pleasure, misfortune, renunciation are realized by
oneself... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a
cessation of Dharma." The Dharma realized by oneself, self-realized by
oneself, to any other ascetic, or Brahman, or god, Either man or Brahma
does not believe.
　　This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.48.44
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=48.44>]: "Shariputra! You
have [this kind of] faith: when the root of faith has been cultivated
and done a lot, there is a foothold of immortality, an immortality
beyond, the end of immortality; when the root of vitality...when the
root of mindfulness...when The root of concentration... When the root of
wisdom is cultivated and done a lot, is there a foothold of immortality,
the other side of immortality, and the end of immortality?
　　” The root of vitality...the root of mindfulness...the root of
concentration...when the root of wisdom has been cultivated and done a
lot, there is an immortal foothold, an immortal beyond, an immortal end,
great virtue! If this is not known and not known, Those who have seen,
have not been discovered, have not witnessed, have not been touched by
wisdom, where they will come to others with faith: when the root of
faith has been cultivated and done a lot, there is an immortal foothold
and an immortal shore , the end of immortality; when the root of
vitality...when the root of mindfulness...when the root of
concentration...when the root of wisdom has been cultivated and done a
lot, there is a foothold of immortality, the other side of immortality,
and the end of immortality; great virtue! Known, seen, discovered,
attested, touched by wisdom, where they are confident, unquestionable:
Be the root of faith... Be the root of vitality... Be the root of
mindfulness... Be the concentration Root... When the wisdom root has
been practised and done a lot, there is an immortal foothold, an
immortal beyond, an immortal end. Great virtue! To me this has been
known, seen, discovered, and witnessed , has been touched by wisdom,
where I am confident and unquestionable: when the root of faith...when
the root of vitality...when the root of mindfulness...when the root of
concentration...when the root of wisdom has been practiced and done a
lot, there is The foothold of immortality, the shore of immortality, the
end of immortality."
　　"Good! Good! Sariputra! Sariputra! If this is not known, not seen,
not discovered, not attested, not touched by wisdom , there, they will
come to others with faith: when the root of faith... (middle
abbreviated) when the root of wisdom has been cultivated and done a lot,
there is an immortal foothold, an immortal shore, and an immortal end."
　　"Unbelievers With those who know not to be made, and those who have
cut off samsara, those who
　　　destroy opportunities, and those who have spit out, he is indeed
the supreme man.” [Dhp. 97]
　　"The unbeliever, he is not separated from the defilement": "All
ignorant ordinary people are defiled, good ordinary people, including
the seven kinds of learning, they are away from defilement, Arahants are
neither defiled nor defiled: those who have left the defiled are greedy
The cessation of greed becomes the state of greed; the cessation of
hatred becomes the state of renunciation; the cessation of delusion
becomes the state of renunciation of delusion, he is the one who has
descended from the state, who has practiced action... There is no
regeneration of him." For the unbeliever, he is inseparable from being
defiled.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Those who have no leakage in satisfaction, and those who are not
enthusiastic in terms of slowness, those who are
　　　soft and those who are eloquent, those who are unbelievers, those
who are inseparable from being infected
　　. " , and anger when nothing is gained,
　　　not hostile with craving, not greedy in taste.
　　"Learning for the sake of gain, and anger when there is no gain":
"What is learning for the sake of gain? Bhikkhus! Here, the bhikkhu sees
that the bhikkhu is the beneficiary of clothing, food, shelter,
necessities for the sick, and necessities of medicine. He thought, "What
is this Venerable person who is the recipient of clothes, food, shelter,
the needs of the sick, the necessities of medicine?" He thought, "This
Venerable is a sutra teacher, because then this Venerable is clothing,
Those who benefit from food, shelter, things needed by the sick, and
necessities of medicine.” Gain is the cause, the gain is the condition,
the gain is the reason, and for the sake of the gain to arise, the gain
is familiar to him and he learns the scriptures. This is to learn for
the gain.
　　Or When the monk saw that the monk was the beneficiary of clothes,
food, shelter, the needs of the sick, and the necessities of medicine,
he thought: "What does this venerable one think of as the beneficiary of
clothes, food, shelter, the needs of the sick, and the necessities of
medicine? ' He thought: 'This venerable one is a lawyer... (abbreviated
in the middle) the preacher... the Abhidhamma master, because then this
venerable one is the beneficiary of clothing, food, shelter, the needs
of the sick, and the necessities of medicine.' Benefit is the cause, the
benefit is the condition, the benefit is the reason, for the sake of the
benefit to arise, so that the benefit is familiar with him and he learns
the Abhidhamma, and this is also the study for the benefit.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu sees a bhikkhu as the beneficiary of clothing,
food, shelter, the sick, and the necessities of medicine, he thinks:
"What does this venerable venerable man think of the beneficiary of
clothes, food, shelter, the sick, and the necessities of medicine? ? '
He thought: 'This Venerable is a person who lives in the forest...a
person who is always begging...a person who wears dung and sweeping
clothes...but a person who wears three clothes...a person who beggars in
sequence...a person who does not eat after eating...a person who often
sits [no] The reclining person...the one who lives everywhere, because
then this Venerable One is the beneficiary of clothing, food, shelter,
the needs of the sick, the necessities of medicine. 』The gain is the
cause, the gain is the precondition, the gain is the reason, and for the
sake of the gain, the gain is familiar to the person who lives in the
forest... (Abbreviated in the middle) One who lives everywhere, this is
also the way to gain and learn.
　　How to learn without profit? "Monks! Here, the bhikkhu does not use
the gain as the cause, the gain as the condition, the gain as the
reason, not for the arising of the gain, not for the gain to be
pervaded, but only for the purpose (benefit) of his own control, the
purpose of his own tranquility, and the achievement of his own
achievement. The purpose of Nirvana is that he learns the scriptures, he
learns the Vinaya, and he learns the Abhidhamma. This is the way to
study for profit.
　　Or, a bhikkhu does not use profit as a cause, not profit as
condition, not profit as reason, not for profit to arise, not for profit
to be pervasive, but only for the sake of less desire, for contentment,
for reduction, for solitary living, Because of the existence of this
state, become a forest dweller...become a regular beggar...become a
manure-sweeper...become a man with three clothes...become a sequential
beggar...become a person who does not eat after eating...become a
regular sitting Those who [do not lie down]...become those who live
everywhere, so they have to learn for profit. 』Learning for profit.
　　"And get angry when there is no gain", how is it to be angry when
there is no gain? Here, a certain class of people [thinks]: 'I can't get
a home, or I can't get a community, or I can't get a home, or I can't
get a gain, or I can't get a reputation, or I can't get a name I don't
get compliments, or I don't get pleasure, or I don't get clothes, or I
don't get a group meal, or I don't get a bed seat, or I don't get the
patient's necessities, or the medical necessities, or I don't get to the
caretaker, or I am unknown. ' He was angry, repulsive, stubborn
(resistance), showing anger, hatred, dissatisfaction. This is to get
angry when there is no gain.
　　How can you not get angry when you have nothing to gain? Here, the
bhikkhu [thought to himself]: "I can't get a home, or I can't get a
community... (Omitted) I am the unknown. ' He is not angry, rejecting,
not stubborn (resisting), showing no anger, hatred, dissatisfaction.
This is to not get angry when there is no gain. "Learning for profit,
and getting angry when it doesn't.
　　"Do not crave a hostile person, and do not follow greed in taste":
"A 'hostile person' has all the hatred, hostility, disgust, hostility,
anger, anger, anger, hatred, anger, wickedness of the heart, hatred,
hatred, wrath, wrath, a state of anger, hatred, anger, a state of wrath,
aversion, agitation, a state of indignation, opposition, hostility,
brutal anger, rage, unpleasantness of heart, This is called hostility.
Whoever for him this anger is abandoned, cut off, calmed down, quenched,
cannot arise, burnt with the fire of wisdom, he is called non-hostile.
Craving, The thirst for form, the thirst for sound, the thirst for
smell, the thirst for taste, the thirst for touch, the thirst for
Dharma. "Taste (flavor)", there are roots, branches, skins, leaves
Flavor, flowery, fruity, sour, sweet, bitter, spicy, salty, alkaline,
sour, Astringent, delicious, non-delicious, cold, hot, some ascetic,
brahmins are taste cravings, they wander with their tongues seeking the
best taste, after they get sour, they want no sour, and they get no sour
After obtaining the sweet taste, search for no sweetness, after
obtaining no sweetness, search for sweetness; after obtaining
bitterness, search for no bitterness, after obtaining no bitterness,
search for bitterness; after obtaining spicy taste, search for no spicy
taste , after obtaining no spicy taste, search for spicy taste; after
obtaining salty taste, search for no salty taste; after obtaining no
salty taste, search for salty taste; after obtaining alkaline taste,
search for non-alkali taste; after obtaining non-alkali taste, search
for alkaline taste; after obtaining sour taste When they get astringent,
they search for sourness; when they get delicious, they search for
non-taste; when they get non-taste, they search for delicious; when they
get cold, they search for hot; when they get hot, they search for cool.
Later, because of dissatisfaction, he sought again and again, craving,
craving, being tied, being infatuated, being dyed, being attached, being
fixed, and being obstructed in the desired taste. A person who has been
abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, and burned by
the fire of wisdom, he eats food after examining it rationally: "Neither
for entertainment, nor for pride, nor for decoration, nor for Majesty,
only for the survival, survival of this body, to stop the harm, to
support the holylife, like this, I will fight back the previous
feelings, and not cause new feelings to arise, there will be my
existence, and the state of no fault, and live in peace. '
　　As if he anointed the wounds only for the purpose of healing, or as
he anointed the axles with oil only for the purpose of transporting
goods, or as if he ate the food of his son's flesh only for the purpose
of saving the desert. In the same way, the bhikkhu eats food after
careful examination: "Neither for pleasure... (abbreviated in the
middle) to live in peace. ' The craving for taste he renounces, drives
away, ends, and brings it to non-existence. Should have been separated
from taste craving, abstained, abstained, renounced, departed,
liberated, freed from bondage, he abides with a mind free from
limitations. "In order not to be hostile because of craving, not to be
greedy in taste.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Learning only to gain, and to get angry when it is unprofitable,
　　　Those who are not hostile because of craving are not greedy in taste.
　　90. The peaceful person is always mindful, does not consider the
equal in the world, the
　　　non-superior and the inferior, for him there is no prosperity.
　　"Peaceful people are always mindful": "Peaceful ones" possess the
six elements of peace: after seeing form with the eyes, they are neither
happy nor sad but abiding in peace, mindful and wise; after hearing
sounds with the ear ... (Abbreviated in the middle) After knowing the
Dharma with consciousness, one is neither happy nor sad but abides in
peace, mindful and wise [ DN.33
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=33>Six permanent abodes].
After seeing what is pleasing with the eyes, he does not desire, does
not like, or causes greed to arise, his body is established, his mind is
established, and he is well established and liberated within himself.
After the lust, he does not become discouraged, has no unsettled heart,
no grief without intention, no malicious malice with no intention, his
body is established, his mind is established, and he is well established
and liberated within himself. . After hearing the sound with the
ear...after smelling the smell with the nose...after tasting the taste
with the tongue...after the touch with the body...after knowing the
desired Dharma with the consciousness, not craving, not liking, not
causing greed to arise, his The body is established, the mind is
established, and the self is well established and liberated. Moreover,
after knowing the unsatisfactory Dharma with consciousness, it does not
become discouraged, has no unsettled mind, and has no mind. Sad,
unintentional malice, his body is established, his mind is established,
and he is built up and liberated by goodness within himself.
　　After seeing the form with the eyes, both the agreeable and the
unpleasant forms are established for him in the body and the mind, and
he is well established and liberated within himself; after hearing the
sound with the ear... ) After knowing the Dharma with consciousness,
both the agreeable and the unpleasant Dharmas are established for him in
the body and the mind, and are established and liberated by good things
within him [ SN.46.6 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=46.6>].
　　After seeing the color with your eyes, you will not be stained with
the dye, you will not be angry with the angry, you will not be foolish
with the stupid, you will not be angry with the angry, and you will not
get drunk with the drunk. , do not be defiled by those that can be
contaminated; after listening to the sound with the ear... (Abbreviated
in the middle) After knowing the Dharma with consciousness, not being
defiled by those who can be defiled, not being angry in those who can be
angry, and not being infatuated by those who can become stupid Be
foolish, not angry about those who can get angry, not intoxicated with
those who can get drunk, and not polluted with those who can pollute. So
much is seen in what is seen; so much is heard in what is heard; so much
is perceived in what is perceived; so much is known in what is known [
SN.35.95 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.95>], in what
is seen Untainted; untainted with what he smells; untainted with what he
perceives; untainted with what he perceives; unattached with what he
sees, unaffected by [virtue], unreliable, unbound . Having been
liberated and freed from fetters, he lives with a mind free from
limitations; in what he hears... (abbreviated in the middle) in what he
understands, he is one who has no attachment, no reduction, no
dependence, and no bondage. Freed, freed from bondage, he lives with a
mind free from limitations.
　　An arahant has eyes, an arahant sees form with eyes, an arahant has
no desires, an arahant’s mind is good and liberated; an arahant has
ears, an arahant listens to sounds with an ear, an arahant has no
desire, an arahant’s mind is good and liberated; an arahant has a nose,
and an arahant smells with the nose Smell, an arahant has no desire and
greed, an arahant's mind is good and liberated; an arahant has a tongue,
an arahant tastes taste with his tongue... (middle abbreviated) an
arahant has a body, an arahant touches and touches... an arahant
intends, an arahant knows the Dharma with consciousness, an arahant has
no desire and greed , Arahants Wholehearted Liberation [ SN.35.232
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.232>].
　　The joy of the eyes, the joy of the form, the joy of the form, the
Arahant has controlled, guarded, guarded, guarded, and taught the
self-control of it; ...the tongue tastes pleasure, rejoices in taste,
rejoices in taste, an arahant has mastered, guarded, guarded, guarded,
and taught how to control it, rejoices in what he touches... The joy of
the Dhamma, the joy of the Dhamma, the joy of the Dhamma, the Arahant
has conditioned, guarded, guarded, guarded, and taught the self-control
of it [ MN.75 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=75>].
　　"They lead the regulated [dragon elephant] into the assembly, and
the king mounts the regulated one. The
　　　regulated one is the most victorious among men, and he can endure
any insult
　　　. It is a steed,
　　　and Kungara (elephant) is a big dragon elephant. Self-regulation
is even more extraordinary. It
　　　is true that you can go to the unreached direction without using
these vehicles. You can control it according to
　　　yourself, and the control person can go with the control. [Dhp.
321-323]
　　　They are unwavering in all kinds of slowness, they have become
liberated and regenerated, they
　　　have reached the stage of mastery, they are victors in the world.
[ SN.22.76 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.76>]
　　　Wherever their faculties have been practised One, inside and
outside of oneself: in the world, piercing this and other worlds, the
one who has practiced while he waits to die: he is the one who has been
conditioned." 　　[
　　　Sn.
']": "['Always',] always; everything; all times; always; constant
time... (abbreviated in the middle) old age. 'Those with mindfulness'
are mindful in four ways: when practising He is conscientious when he is
mindful of the body, and when he is contemplating the body, he is
conscientious in feeling...in the mind...when he is practising and
contemplating the dharma in all dharmas, he is conscientious...
Mindful." Those who are peaceful are always mindful.
　　"Do not consider equals in the world": "Not by birth, or by
surnames... (abbreviated) or by something that makes 'I am equals' slow
to arise." For those who do not consider equals in the world.
　　"What is not superior is not inferior": "Not by birth, or by
surname... (abbreviated) or by something that makes 'I am the winner'
extremely slow. Not by birth, or by surname... (abbreviated in ) or by
something that causes the contempt of 'I am inferior.'" is neither
superior nor inferior.
　　"For him there is no prosperity": "'for him', for an arahant; for
one whose taints have been exhausted. For 'increase', there are seven
kinds of prosperity: greed, hatred. Prosperity, ignorance, slow growth,
vision, pollution, karma, for him, these growths do not exist, they do
not exist, they are not known, they are not discovered, they have been
discarded and cut off. , calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by
the fire of wisdom." For him there was no flourishing.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"The peaceful one is always mindful, who in the world does not
consider the equal, the
　　　non-superior and the inferior, for him there is no enrichment."
　　91. For him there is no dependence . Status: After knowing the
Dharma, he becomes a non-adherent
　　　, craving for existence or nonexistence, undiscovered for him.
　　"For him there is no state of dependence": ""For him," for an
arahant, one whose defilements have been exhausted. "Dependence," there
are two kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving and the
dependence of view... ...(Middle abbreviation) This is the dependence of
craving... (Middle abbreviation) This is the dependence of seeing. For
him, the dependence of craving has been abandoned, the dependence of
seeing has been abandoned, and the dependence of craving has been
abandoned. The state of abandonment of dependence, the state of
abandonment of dependence of seeing, for him the state of dependence he
does not have, does not exist, is not known, is not discovered, has been
abandoned, is cut off , calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, burned by
the fire of wisdom." For him there was no state of dependence.
　　"After knowing the Dharma, one becomes non-reliance": "After
knowing, after understanding, after measuring, after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying. "All actions are impermanent" after
knowing, after understanding, after measuring , after judgment, after
separation, after clear; "all actions are suffering"... "all dharmas are
non-self"... (abbreviated in the middle) "all dharmas are annihilation"
after knowing, understanding, evaluating, After judgment, after
separation, and after clarification. "Those who do not rely on", there
are two kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving and the
dependence of view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the dependence
of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the dependence It is
the dependence of seeing. After abandoning the dependence of craving;
after the dependence of mindfulness is not dependent on the eye; not
dependent on the ear; not dependent on the nose; not dependent on the
tongue; not dependent on the body; not dependent The mind; the
forms...the sounds...the smells...the tastes...the touches...the
family...the group (the crowd)...the abode...(the middle abbreviated)
what you see, hear, feel, and can be conscious of Those who know the
dharmas are not dependent, not attached, not stuck, not attached to, not
directed towards (the solution), have been detached, have left, have
been liberated, have been freed from fetters, he is limited by
detachment Live with the heart." In order to know the Dharma, he became
a non-reliance.
　　"Desire for being or for non-being is undiscovered for him":
"'craving', craving for form, craving for sound, craving for smell,
craving for taste, craving for touch , the thirst for the Dharma. "To
him", to the Arahant, to the one who has exhausted all defilements. ,
the view of permanence, the view of non-existence, the view of cessation
of existence. The view of being, of being again and again, of being
reborn again and again, of rebirth again and again, of being born again
and again, of being born again and again. For him, craving for him does
not exist , does not exist, is not known, is not discovered, is
abandoned, cut off, calmed down, ceased, cannot arise, is burned by the
fire of wisdom." For him to crave for being or for non-being not be found.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"For him there is no state of dependence: after knowing the Dhamma,
he becomes a non-dependant,
　　　and for him craving for existence or nonexistence remains
undiscovered."
　　92. I said, "He is stillness . "He who has no expectation in lust,
　　　his bonds are not found, he passes through love.
　　"I call him the 'Silent One'": "The Silent One is the one that calms
down, the one that cools, the one that ceases. I speak to him, I speak
of him, I speak of him, I explain him, I speak of him." Speak for me He
is the "Silent One".
　　"Those who have no expectations on desires": "[Desires], there are
two kinds of desires from the ode: desires for things and desires for
pollution... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called desires in
things... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called Desire for
pollution. After knowing everything about the desire for things, after
abandoning the desire for pollution, after abandoning it, after driving
it away, after finishing it, and after making it come to non-existence,
when there is no expectation in terms of desire, it becomes Those who
have renounced desire, those who have given up desire, those who have
eliminated desire, those who have liberated their desires, those who
have abandoned desire, those who have given up desire, those who have
abandoned greed in desire, those who have no greed, those who have given
up greed, those who have Those who have eliminated greed, those who have
been liberated from greed, those who have given up greed, those who have
given up greed, those who do not hunger and thirst, those who have
cooled, those who have become cool, those who feel happiness, and those
who have been born as Brahman." For those who have no expectations in
desire.
　　"His ties are not found": "The ties", there are four kinds of ties:
the greedy body ties, the malicious body ties, the abstinence's body
ties, [only] this is the real attachment Body Binding [ SN.45.175
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.175>]. The greed of
one's own view is the body binding of greed, the anger and
dissatisfaction at what others say is the body binding of maliciousness,
the attachment to one's own precepts or prohibitions or the precepts and
the prohibitions are the body bindings of the precepts, one's own views.
[The Body Binding of Persistence ( Ni.13
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni13.htm>, 147 verse)] is [only] this is
the body binding of true grasping. "His", the Arahant's, the one whose
defilements have been exhausted. "His ties are not found": "For him they
are not, do not exist, are not known, are not found, are abandoned, cut
off, calmed, ceased, cannot arise , burnt by the fire of wisdom." For
his ties were not found.
　　"He passes through love": Love is called craving, which is greed,
greed... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Love", what
is the meaning of love? Love is "spread"; love is "large"; love is
"widespread"; love is "unrighteous"; love is "it forces"; love is "it
takes"; The deceiver is love; the root of poison is love; the fruit of
poison is love; the poison is used for love; On the smell...the
taste...the touch...the home...the crowd...the abode...(the middle
abbreviated) on the things that are seen, heard, felt, and can be known
Enlarged attachment" is love. "He passes through love": "This loving
craving he passes, transcends, passes, passes, overcomes." Passes love
for him.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"I say 'He is the silent one': the one who has no expectations in lust,
　　　whose bonds are not found, who passes through love."
　　93. His sons, livestock, fields and homes Undiscovered,
　　　even if received or rejected, is not found in him.
　　"His sons, livestock, land and house were not found": "No" is
negative. "His", the Arahant's, the one whose defilements have been
exhausted. "Son", there are four kinds of sons: the son of oneself, the
son of the field, the son of the adopted son, and the son of the
apprentice. "Livestock", goats and sheep, chickens and pigs, elephants,
oxen, horses, mules and horses. "Field", japonica rice field, rice
field, mung bean field, bean field, barley field, wheat field, sesame
field. "Residential land" refers to residential land, warehouse
forecourt land, backyard land, garden land, residential land. "His sons,
livestock, land and house are not found": "His son's attachment
(abstract), or livestock, or land, or house they don't, don't exist,
don't know, Undiscovered, abandoned, cut off, calmed down, rested,
unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom." Undiscovered for his
son, livestock, land and homestead.
　　"Even if what has been obtained or rejected is not found in him":
"The 'received' is my view; the 'rejected' is the judgment, he has no
'gain' to be held; Those who refuse should be liberated, and whoever is
not grasped should not be liberated; whoever should not be liberated
should not be grasped, an arahant who has gone beyond grasping and
releasing, has surpassed growth With the decaying one, he is one who has
descended into a state, one who has practiced action... (abbreviated in
the middle) samsara without his rebirth." For even what has been
obtained or rejected is not found in him. 　　Because of that, the
Blessed One
　　said,
　　"His sons, livestock, fields and houses are not found,
　　　even what has been obtained or rejected is not found in him. " ,
　　　to him that is not taken seriously, so he is unshakable about what
is said.


　　"Ordinary people, ascetics and Brahmins, what can they say about
others?": "'Ordinary people', 'they make a lot of pollution born.' They
are ordinary people; "Many masters' faces" are ordinary people; "Those
who have not come out of many and all interesting places" are ordinary
people; "They make many kinds of pretense." They are ordinary people;
All kinds of torment and vexation." For ordinary people; "They were
burnt all over with many kinds of heat and vexation." For ordinary
people; "In many five desires, greedy, lustful, bound, fascinated,
tainted, possessed "Those who are fixed and obstructed" are ordinary
people; "those who are covered, covered, obstructed, closed, covered,
and covered by many five covers" are ordinary people. "Sramanas",
whoever walks into the procession from outside here Those who enter the
procession. 'Brahmin', anyone who calls someone a friend. Ordinary
people, ascetics and Brahmins, what can they say about others?" Ordinary
people can say it with greed; Anyone who can speak with slowness; anyone
who can speak with insight; anyone who can speak with arrogance; anyone
who can speak with doubt; anyone who can speak with vexation potential
as a "tainted person", or a "disgusting person", or a "disgusting
person". The ignorant, or the bound, or the clinging, or the one who has
come to disarray, or the one who has come to the displeased, or the one
who has come to the resolute, those pretensions have been abandoned In
what way can he be said to be "a person who has fallen into hell," or "a
person who has fallen into the realm of beasts," or "a person who has
fallen into the realm of hungry ghosts," or "human" or "heaven," for the
state of being abandoned. ', or 'the one with color', or "the one
without color", or "the one with thinking", or "the one without
thinking", or "the one who is neither thinking nor non-thinking"? He has
no cause, no predestined relationship, no factor to speak, speak, speak,
explain, and speak. "For ordinary people, ascetics, and Brahmins, what
can they say about others.
　　"For him it is not valued": "'For him', for the Arahant; for the one
who has exhausted the defilements. There are two kinds of value for
'value': the value [due to] craving and the [Because] the emphasis on
seeing... (Middle abbreviated) This is the emphasis on craving...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the emphasis on seeing. For him, the
emphasis on craving has been discarded, and the emphasis on seeing has
been abandoned, so The state in which the value of craving has been
discarded, the value of view has been abandoned, they set (act) no
craving or no view before (attempt) and walk behind, without craving as
the flag, without craving. Craving is a banner, no craving is an
increase, no view is a banner, no view is a banner, no view is an
increase, not being followed by craving or seeing.” For him that was not
taken seriously.
　　"Therefore he is unshakable about what is said": "'therefore',
therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that cause.
Regarding what is said, to rebuke, to accuse, to scolding, to praise or
not, to With what is not praised, he does not shake, does not sway, does
not move, does not tremble, does not tremble (strong tremor), does not
tremble much (strong tremor).
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Ordinary people, ascetics and Brahmins, what can say about others,
it does not matter to him, so he does not　　waver
　　　about what is said." Muni would not say that among the excellent,
　　　not among the same, not among the inferior, those who do not
construct do not come to construct. 　　"Those who are free from
covetousness and not stingy": "'Covetousness is called craving, which is
covetousness, covetousness... (abridged) covetousness, the root of
covetousness. To him this covetousness is abandoned, cut off, and Those
who have calmed down, are stopped, cannot arise, and are burned by the
fire of wisdom are called those who are free from craving, and they are
not greedy in form... Dharmas are not covetous, not bound, not
infatuated, sinless, free from covetousness, free from covetousness,
renounced covetousness, freed from covetousness, liberated from
covetousness, renounced covetousness Those who have given up on greed,
those who do not hunger and thirst... (Abbreviated in the middle) live
as one who has been born of Brahman." Those who are free from greed.
"Those who are not stingy", "stingy", there are five kinds of
stinginess: [Yes ] Miserliness in abode, miserliness at home,
miserliness in gain, miserliness in praise, miserliness in Dharma, all
those who hold views like this... (abbreviated in the middle) are called
miserliness. Anyone who for him this miserliness is abandoned, The one
who is cut off, calmed down, stoked, unable to arise, burned by the fire
of wisdom, he is called ungrateful." It is one who is free from craving,
who is ungrateful.



　　"Muni does not say that among the excellent, not the same, nor the
inferior": "'Muni', Muna is called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle)
After transcending and dyeing the net, he is Muni. I am the winner," or
"I am the equal," or "I am the inferior." He doesn't say, he doesn't
talk, he doesn't talk, he doesn't explain, he doesn't speak." Because
Muni would not say that among the excellent, he is not The same, not
among the inferior.
　　"Those who do not construct do not come to construct":
""Construction", there are two kinds of constructions: the construction
of [cause] craving and the construction of [cause] view... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the construction of craving... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the construction of seeing. "For him the
construction of craving has been abandoned, the construction of seeing
has been abandoned, and the construction of craving has been abandoned,
and the construction of seeing has been abandoned. The state, the
construction of craving or the construction of seeing, he does not come,
does not reach, does not reach, does not hold, does not cling to, does
not cling to." For the construction of non-coming. Two constructions:
the construction of [cause] craving and the construction of [cause]
seeing...(Middle abbreviation) This is the construction of
craving...(Middle abbreviation) This is the construction of seeing. For
him, the construction of craving has been Dismissal, the construction of
seeing has been discontinued, with the construction of craving being
discarded, the construction of seeing being discontinued, the
construction of craving or the construction of seeing he does not do,
does not make it come into being , do not cause it to produce, do not
cause it to arise, do not cause it to arise." For those who do not
construct do not come to construct.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Those who are free from covetousness and those who are not stingy,
Muni would not say that among those who are excellent,
　　　not among those who are equal, not among those who are inferior,
and those who do not construct do not come to construct."
　　96. For him it is There is nothing of himself in the world, he does
not mourn for the non-existence, he does
　　　not walk into the dharmas, he is indeed called the "Silent One".
　　"For him there is no self in the world": "'for him', for an arahant;
for one whose taints have been exhausted. 'There is no self in the
world', for him any form "This is mine, or this is someone else's."
grasped, grasped, clinging, grasped Written, understood by faith, he
does not, does not exist... (abbreviated in the middle) is dyed by the
fire of wisdom." For him, there is no self in the world.
　　"He does not grieve what is not": "He does not grieve what has
changed, or in what has changed he does not grieve: 'My eyes have been
changed' he does not grieve; 'My ears . . . my nose ...my tongue...my
body...my mind...my forms...my voices...my smells...my tastes...my
touches...my Dharmas... my home... my group... my abode... my gain... my
reputation... my praise... my joy... my clothes... my food ...my bed
base...my patient needs, medical necessities...my mother...my
father...my brother...my sister...my son...my daughter...my Friends...
my colleagues... my relatives... my blood relatives have changed' he
does not mourn, he does not tire, he does not weep, he does not cry with
beating his chest, he does not come into confusion." exist and sad.
　　Or, "To be touched, tormented, united, possessed by false
sufferings, he does not mourn, weary, weep, weep without beating his
chest, and does not come into confusion: be touched, tormented, united,
possessed by eye diseases. He is not sad, not tired, not weeping, not
beating his chest and crying, not going into confusion; by ear
disease... by nose disease... by tongue disease... by body disease... by
head disease... by outer ear Sickness... Mouth disease... Teeth
disease... Cough... Breathing... External nose disease... Fever... Old
age... Abdominal disease... Comatose... Diarrhea... Abdominal pain ...by
cholera...by leprosy...by tumor...by ringworm...by lung disease...by
epilepsy...by ringworm...by mange...by windworm...by scratching (a
leprosy)... ...by dry skin...by blood and gallbladder disease...by
diabetes...by hemorrhoids...by rashes (boils and blisters)...by
hemorrhoid fistulas (ulcers)...by diseases caused by gallbladder...by
diseases caused by phlegm... …Illnesses caused by the wind...Illnesses
caused by [the three]…Illnesses caused by changing seasons...Illnesses
caused by wrong postures...Illnesses that come suddenly...Illnesses
caused by karma The disease...by cold...by heat...by hunger...by thirst
[...by feces...by urine]...by the contact of horseflies, mosquitoes,
winds, sunsnakes, touching, torturing, combining, possessing, he does
not Sorrow, don't get tired, don't weep, don't beat your chest and cry,
don't come into confusion." In this way he doesn't grieve for the
non-existence.
　　Or, "In the non-existent, the unknown, the undiscovered [thinking]:
'Ah! My that is really gone, and if there is my that, I really don't get
that.' He doesn't grieve. Do not be weary, do not weep, do not cry with
beating breasts, do not come into confusion.” In this way he does not
mourn for what does not exist.
　　"Do not go to the dharmas": "Do not go where desire should not go;
do not go where hatred should not go; do not go where delusion should
not go; do not go where terror should not go; Not because of greed; not
because of anger; not because of ignorance; not because of arrogance;
not because of seeing; not because of ignorance; not because of doubt;
not because of vexation Go away from the underlying trend, not to be
carried away, carried away, carried, carried by the quarrel (disharmony)
Dharma.” In order not to go into the Dharma.
　　"He is indeed called the 'Silent One'": "'He is the Quiet One, the
Still One, the Calm One, the Cooler, the Still One.' Called, spoken,
told, spoken, explained, was spoken." For he was indeed called "The
Silent One."
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"For him there is nothing of himself in the world, he does not mourn
for what is not there, he does
　　　not go into the dharmas, he is indeed called the 'Silent One'."
　　Sutra before Disintegration Description of the tenth [completed].


Notes:
　1. One who attains liberation before death can be called a silent
one—describes the appearance of a liberated one.
　2. One-point follow-up: no anger, no fear, no showing off (slow), no
regrets, speaking after consideration, no arrogance, self-control, no
tricks, no eagerness, no stinginess, no arrogance, no disgust, no
alienation , not leaking, not hostile, not greedy.
　12/12/2020 10:45
