Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
11. Explanation of the Quarrel and Quarrel Sutra

Next , the explanation of the Quarrel and Quarrel Sutra will say:

97. Where does much quarrel and quarrel come from, weeping, sorrow,
and stinginess?

　Slow, extremely slow, and divisive language, where do those come
from? bring it on! Please tell that.

"Where is there a lot of quarrels and quarrels": "quarrels", with an
action as a quarrel, and "arguments" are also that. Anyone who quarrels,
it is a quarrel; anyone who argues, it is a quarrel. Or, in another
aspect, arguing is called the anterior part of the quarrel. King arguing
with king, Kshatriya arguing with Kshatriya, Brahmin arguing with
Brahmin, house owner arguing with house owner, mother arguing with son,
son arguing with mother, father arguing with son, son arguing with
father, brother arguing with brother , brother against sister, sister
against brother, friend against friend [ MN.13
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=13>], this is the
argument. What is a quarrel? Those who are fond of sticks at home
quarrel with their bodies and words, and those who break the precepts of
the homeland quarrel with their bodies and words. This is a quarrel.

"Where is there a lot of quarrels and quarrels": "Where are the
quarrels and quarrels? Where are they born? Where are they born? Where
are they born? Where are they born? What is the origin? Fate; he
inquires about Fate; he inquires about sets, he inquires, begs, pleads,
makes it clear." There is a lot of arguing about where it comes from.

"Weeping, sorrow and stinginess": "'Weeping', touched by the loss
(unfortunate) of relatives, or the loss (loss) of property, disease,
morality, and vision, having (suffering) some loss, touching some Those
who suffer from the dharma have the states of lamentation, lamentation,
weeping, lamentation, lamentation, lamentation, speech, useless words,
muttering, weeping, weeping, weeping. "Sorrow" is touched by the
misfortune of relatives , or the loss of property, sickness, precepts,
and views, having (suffering) certain losses, those who come into
contact with certain dharmas have grief, grief, a state of grief, inner
grief, inner grief, inner burning, The internal burning, the heart
burning, worry, worry arrows. "Abstinence", there are five kinds of
abstinence: [to] abstinence at home, at home, at gain, at praise, at
Dharma, all like this The state of being stingy, the appearance of being
stingy, the state of being stingy, being greedy, being stingy, being
stingy, and the state of holding the mind tightly, this is called being
stingy. Besides, being stingy is also being stingy; being stingy in the
world is also being stingy; Miserliness." For weeping, sorrow, and
miserliness.

"Slow, extremely slow and alienating language": "'Slow', here, some
are born, or by surname, or by good family, or by beauty as lotus
flower, or by property, or by research (acquisition), or By karma, or by
craftsmanship, or by clarity (academic), or by hearing, or by eloquence,
or by something that slows it down. "Extremely slow", here, a certain
type of people is either born, or Despising others with their
surnames... (abbreviated in the middle) or with something. "Different
language", here, a certain type of person is a divisive talker. After he
hears it from here, he speaks there in order to alienate these people,
or he goes from there After hearing this, I say here in order to divide
those people, like this, he is the destroyer of reconciliation, the
spreader of division, the one who reconciles, the one who loves discord,
the one who loves discord, the one who speaks discord, This is called a
divisive talker. Furthermore, divisive language is produced for two
reasons: by desire to be lovely, or by divisive desire. How is divisive
language produced by desire to be lovely? "For this one, I will Be
lovable, I will become agreeable, I will become intimate, I will become
intimate, I will become amiable." This is how the desire to be lovely
produces alienation. How does the desire for division produce
alienation?" How can these become various, will become separation, will
become division, will become two kinds, will become contradiction, will
become two factions, will break up, not make reunion, make abiding in
suffering and unhappiness.” This is the desire for division. Produces
alien language." is slow, extremely slow and alien language.

"Where do those come from so much? Come on! Tell me about that":
"Where do the eight kinds of pollution, 'quarrel, quarrel, weeping,
sorrow, stinginess, slowness, extreme slowness, and alienation' come
from so many? Where do they arise? Where is it produced? Where is it
born? Where is it born? Where is it born? What is its cause? What is its
origin? What is its birth? He asks about causes; he asks about causes;
he asks about becoming; he asks about generation; he asks about waiting;
he asks about food; he asks about objects; he asks about conditions; he
asks about collections, he asks, begs, asks, and makes it clear.” "Where
do those come from? Come! Tell that": "Come! Tell, explain, teach,
inform, build, unravel, parse, You clarify, please clarify." Where did
those come from? bring it on! Please tell that.

because of that ,Say: "Where is the quarrel and quarrel

, the weeping, the sorrow, and the stinginess? The slow, the very
slow, and the
divisive

　language, where are those many? Come on! Please tell that." Sorrow
with stinginess,
　slowness, extreme slowness with divisive
language, quarrels and arguments being yoked by stinginess, and divisive
language when arguing arises.
"Lovely has a lot of quarrels and
quarrels, weeping, sorrow and stinginess": "Lovely", there are two kinds
of lovable: living beings or formations. What are lovely beings? Here,
whoever they are to him who desires to benefit, or who desires profit,
or who desires the yoke to be secure, is mother, or father, or brother,
or sister, or son, or daughter, or friend, or colleague, or kin, or
Those who are related by blood, these are lovely beings. What are lovely
things? The desirable forms, the desirable sounds, the desirable smells,
the desirable tastes, the desirable touches, these are the lovely
formations.
Lovely things quarrel when they are afraid of being
robbed, they quarrel when they are robbed, and they quarrel when they
are robbed; lovely things quarrel when their fears change, they quarrel
when they change, and they quarrel when they are robbed. They also
quarrel when things change. Lovely things argue when they fear being
robbed, they argue when they are robbed, and they argue when they are
robbed; they argue when lovely things change, they argue when they
change, and they argue when they are changed . Lovely things weep when
they fear being robbed, they weep when they are robbed, and they weep
when they have been robbed; they weep when lovely things change, they
weep when they change, and they weep when they have changed . Lovely
things are grieved when they fear being robbed, they are grieved when
they are robbed, and they are grieved when they have been robbed; they
are grieved when lovable things are doubtful and changed, and they are
grieved when they have changed, and they are grieved when they have
changed . Lovely things they guard, protect, take (hold), cherish (as
their own), and stingy.





"Slow, extremely slow, and alienation": "Depending on lovely things
makes them slow; depending on lovely things, making them extremely slow.
How can we rely on lovely things to make them slow?" Desirable form,
sound, smell, taste, and touch.” This is to rely on lovely things to
make them slow. How to rely on lovely things to make them extremely
slow? “We are desirable forms , sounds, smells, tastes, touches, and
these other people are not desirable sights, sounds, smells, tastes,
touches.” This is to rely on lovely things to make them very slow.”
"Different language", here, a certain type of person is a divisive
talker, and after hearing it from here, he speaks there in order to
alienate these people... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the desire
for division to produce a divisive language {... (omitted in the
middle)} ." is slow, extremely slow, and divisive language.

"quarrels and quarrels are yoked by miserliness": "The seven
defilements of 'quarrels, quarrels, weeping, sorrow, slowness, extreme
slowness, and divisive speech' are yoked on miserliness, strongly yoked,
toward the yoke, fully toward the yoke ." Being yoked with stinginess
for quarrels and quarrels.

"And when disputes arise there is divisive speech": "When an
argument arises, when it arises, when it is born, when it arises, when
it arises divisive speech: after he hears it from here, he speaks there
in order to be divisive to these people, or, He's heard from there and
said here to alienate those people, like this, he's a breaker of
reconciliation, a spreader of division, a reconciler, a lover of
discord, a lover of discord, a discorder Speaker, this is called a
divisive talker. Furthermore, divisive language is produced for two
reasons: by desire to be lovely, or by divisive desire. How is divisive
language produced by desire to be lovely? , we shall be lovely, we shall
be agreeable, we shall be intimate, we shall be intimate, and we shall
be affectionate.” This is how the desire to be lovely produces
alienation. How is the desire to be divided to produce alienation "How
can these become various, will become separation, will become division,
will become two kinds, will become contradiction, will become two
factions, will break apart, not make reunion, and make abiding in
suffering and unhappiness." Divisive desire produces divisive language."
For and when disputes arise there is divisive language.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Lovely has a lot of quarrels and quarrels, weeping, sorrow with
stinginess,

　slowness, very slowness with alienation, quarrels and arguments
yoked by stinginess, and alienation when arguments arise."

99. Where is the lovely in the world? Reason: Where are greedy
people walking in the world?

　Where does desire and fulfillment come from its cause: whoever has
an afterlife?

"Where does the lovely in the world come from its cause?": "'Where
does the lovely come from its cause? From where is it born? From where
is it born? What is the cause? What is the collection? What is the
birth? What is the root?" He asked about the root of loveliness...
(Abbreviated in the middle) He asked about the collection, and he asked,
begged, asked, and made it clear." where is the reason.

"Everyone who is greedy walks in the world": "The 'everyone...' are
Kshatriya, Brahmins, Vaishyas, Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and
people. 'Covetous' is greed, greedy, greedy. State, greed, tainted,
tainted state, greed, unwholesome root of greed. "Walking", moving,
staying, acting, turning, guarding, making existence, making existence.
"In the world": inthe world of suffering, The world of human beings, the
world of gods, the world of khandhas, the world of worlds, the world of
places.” It is the world of those who are greedy.

"Where do wishes and fulfillments come from their causes": "'Where
do wishes and fulfillments come from their causes? Where do they arise?
Where do they arise? The reason? What is the set? What is the birth?
What is the source?' He asked about the root of desire and
fulfillment... (Abbreviated in the middle) He asked about the set, he
asked, begged, requested, and made it clear." where is the reason.
"Anyone who has an afterlife": "Anyone who has a refuge, a refuge, a
refuge, a refuge, a completion and a refuge." For all who have an
afterlife.

Because of that, Huaren said:

"Where is the cause of the lovely in the world: where all the greedy
walk in the world?

　Where is the cause of the desire and fulfillment: all who have an
afterlife?"

100. The lovely will in the world is its cause: all the greedy
Walking in the world,

　desire and fulfillment are its causes from here: all who have an
afterlife.

"The lovable desires in the world are their cause": "desire", all
the desires of desire, the lust of desire, the lust of desire, the
craving of desire, the love of desire, the grasping of desire, the
desire of desire Burning heat, lustful infatuation, lustful flooding,
lusting yoke (bonding), lustful clinging, lustful willful cover. In
addition, there are five desires: the desire to seek, the desire to
obtain, the desire to use, the desire to store, and the desire to spend.
What is the will to seek? Here, a certain type of person is the one who
takes the author, the one who desires, the one who desires to be born.
He seeks all forms... all sounds... all smells... all tastes... all
things that we touch. This is the desire of all desires. What is the
will to acquire? Here, a certain type of person is the one who takes the
author, the one who desires, the one who desires to be born. He acquires
the forms...the sounds...the smells...the tastes...the touches. This is
the desire to acquire. What is the will to use? Here, a certain type of
person is the one who takes the author, the one who desires, the one who
has the will. He uses all the forms...the sounds...the smells...the
tastes...the touches. This is the will that uses. What is the will to
store? Here, a certain kind of person is the one who takes the author,
the one who desires, the one who wishes to be born, and who is the hoard
of wealth: "There will be disasters." This is the hoarding of will. What
is the will to spend? Here, a certain kind of person is the taker, the
seeker, the one who wishes to be born, and he spends his wealth on
elephant soldiers, horsemen, chariots, archers, and infantry: "These
will guard, protect, and serve me." This is willingness to spend.
"Lovely", there are two kinds of lovely: sentient beings or all
formations... (middle abbreviated) these are lovely sentient beings...
(middle abbreviated) these are lovely formations. "The lovable will in
the world is its cause": "The lovable will is its cause; the will is its
collection; the will is its birth; the will is its source." The lovable
will in the world is its cause.

"Everyone who is greedy walks in the world": "The 'everyone...' are
Kshatriya, Brahmins, Vaishyas, Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and
people. 'Covetous' is greed, greedy, greedy. State, greed, tainted,
tainted state, greed, unwholesome root of greed. "Walking", moving,
staying, acting, turning, guarding, making existence, making existence.
"In the world": in the world of suffering... ... (abbreviated in the
middle) in the world." For those who are greedy to walk in the world.

"Desire and fulfillment are its causes from here": Desire is called
craving, which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the
middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Complete", here, a
certain kind of person, when he seeks all forms, he obtains form and
becomes one who completes form; sounds... smells... tastes... touches
[... dharmas]... home... group
(congregation)...house...profit...reputation...praise...music...clothing...food...housing...patient's needs, medical necessities...sutra...discipline...abhidharma...forest The support...constantly begging for food...the excrement and clothing support...but the three clothes support...the successive begging support...the no food support after eating...the constant sitting [not lying down] support...the abide everywhere...the first jhana... The second jhāna...the third jhāna...the fourth jhāna...the place of boundless emptiness waits...the place of boundless consciousness waits...the place where nothing is there...when the universal search for non-ideal, non-ideal, and non-imagination arrives, he gets Wait for the place of non-thinking, non-non-ideal, and become the one who completes the non-ideal, non-non-ideal, and waits.

"Ploughing the fields with a desire, sowing seeds with

　a desire, starting trade with a desire, carrying goods [to] the
sea, and

　whoever I dwell with a desire, my desire [can] be fulfilled."
[Thag.530

] Success is called completion. "Wish and fulfillment are their
cause from here": "Wish and fulfillment are their cause from here; Will
is their origin; Will is their birth; Will is its source." For desire
and fulfillment are their cause from here.

"Anyone who has an afterlife": "Anyone who has a refuge, a refuge, a
refuge, a refuge, a completion and a refuge." For all who have an
afterlife.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"The lovable will in the world is its cause: whoever is greedy walks
in the world, and

　desire and fulfillment are its cause: everyone who has an afterlife."

101. Then where does the will in the world come from is its cause,
and the judgment is based on Where are there many?

　Angry about false words and doubts, and all the Dharmas spoken by
ascetic?

"Then where in the world is volition is its cause": "'Where does
volition come from? Where does it arise? Where does it arise? What is
the cause? What is its origin? What is its birth? What is its source?”
He asked about the root of desire... (Abbreviated in the middle) He
asked about the set, and he asked, begged, asked, and made it clear.”
where is the reason.

"And from where are judgments abounded": "'Where are judgments
abounded? Where did they arise? Where did they arise? Where did they
arise? Ji? What is its birth? What is the source?" He asked about the
root of judgment... (Abbreviated in the middle) He asked about Ji, and
he asked, begged, asked, and made it clear." There are many reasons and
judgments.

"Anger for vain words and doubts": "'Angry' is all hatred,
hostility, aversion, hostility, anger, anger, anger, anger, anger,
wickedness, hatred, hatred, Wrath, anger, angered state, anger, anger,
angry state, hatred, provocation, provoked state, opposition, hostility,
brutal anger, rage, unpleasantness of the heart. False speech is called
lying , doubt is called doubt." For anger and false words and doubts.

"And all the dharmas spoken by the ascetic": "'and all the
[dharmas]', all the dharmas spoken of by anger and vain, which are
accompanied by doubts, co-produced, mixed with each other,
corresponding, born with the same, destroyed with the same base, and
have the same base , the same object, these are called and all dhammas.
Or, those other kinds, polluted by other participation, these are also
called and all dhammas. "Speaked by ascetic", by those who have appeased
evil Recluses, Brahmins who have rejected evil Dharma, Bhikkhus who have
destroyed the roots of defilement, those who have been liberated from
the roots of all evil and unwholesome said, explained, explained,
taught, told, established, uncovered, analyzed, clarified, explained."
For and all the dharmas spoken by the ascetic.

Because of that, Huaren said,

"Then in the world, where does the desire come from, and where do
the judgments come from?

　Anger, false words, doubts, and all the dharmas spoken by the
ascetic?"

102. In the world, whoever they are Saying "desirable, undesired"
depends on that which produces desire,

　and after seeing non-existence and existence in form, people make
judgments in the world.

"Everything in the world they say 'desirable, undesired'":
"'desirable', pleasant and desirable things. 'Undesirable', painful and
undesirable things." In the world everything they say, whatever they
say, whatever they tell, whatever they talk, whatever they explain,
whatever they say." For in the world they say "whatever is desirable and
whatever is not desirable."

"Depending on that which produces desire": "Depending on what is
desirable and not desirable; on pleasure and suffering; on joy and
sorrow; on desirable and unwanted; , after aversion, the will arises,
arises, is arisen, arises, arises, arises." In dependence on that arises
desire.

"After seeing non-existence and existence in form": "In form", the
four majorWith the color created by the four. What is the existence of
color? All forms exist, arise, arise, be born, arise, appear, this is
the existence of form. What is the non-existence of color? The
extinction, dissipation, destruction, pervasive destruction,
impermanence, and disappearance of all forms are the non-existence of
form. "After seeing non-existence and existence in form": "After seeing
existence and non-existence in form, after seeing, after measuring,
after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying." To see
non-existence and existence in form back.

"People make judgments in the world": "'judgments', there are two
kinds of judgments: judgments of craving and judgments of seeing. What
is judgment of craving? Here, a certain type of person's ungenerated
property does not arise, and has been When the arising property is
exhausted, he thinks: "Why doesn't my ungenerated property arise, and
the generated property is exhausted?" He also thinks this way: "I am
devoted to grain wine, fruit wine, and wine release. For the
practitioner of escape, my unborn property does not arise, and the
property that has arisen is exhausted; for the practitioner who devotes
himself to the practice of the street that does not fit the time, my
unborn property does not arise. , and the possessions that have arisen
are exhausted; for practitioners of lingering exhibitions, my..., for
practitioners who are committed to gambling escapes, my... to
practitioners who are committed to evil friends [communication] Speaking
of which, my unborn property does not arise, and the arisen property is
exhausted; for the practitioner of laziness, my unborn property does not
arise, and the arisen property is exhausted.[ DN.31
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=31>, para. 247]' having
been wise in this way, he does not come close to the disintegration
mouth of the six possessions, but to the gain mouth of the six
possessions, this is a judgment of craving.

Either he cultivates the field, or Buying or selling, or carrying
out (acting) with cattle, or with royal officials, or with other skills,
is also a judgment of craving. What is a judgment of seeing? Here, when
the eye has arisen, he realizes (knows): " My true self has arisen."
When the eye has disappeared he realizes: "My true self has disappeared;
my true self has gone." This is the judgment of seeing. When the
ear...when the nose...when The tongue...when the body...when the
form...when the sound...when the taste...when the smell...when the touch
has arisen he realizes (knows): "My true self has arisen." When the
touch has disappeared Then he realized: "My true self has disappeared;
my true self has gone." This is also the judgment of view; he makes it,
makes it, makes it arise, makes it arise. beings, humans, The student
Brahmin... (middle abbreviated) born of Manu. "In the world": in the
world of the sufferingworld... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world.
"To make judgments for people in the world.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Whatever they say in the world, 'desirable and undesired,' depends
on that which produces the will,

　and after seeing the non-existence and the existence in the form,
people in the world make judgments .

" Words and doubts, when there are two kinds of dharmas, there are
these dharmas. Those who

　doubt should learn on the path of wisdom. After knowing that, all
dharmas are explained by ascetic.

"Angry, False Words and Doubts": "'Angry' is the hatred and
hostility of the heart like this... (Abbreviated in the middle) False
words are called lies, and doubts are called doubts. Angry arises after
reliance; anger arises after reliance on undesirable things. False
speech arises after reliance on desirable things; false speech arises
after reliance on undesirable things. Doubt arises after reliance on
undesirable things; doubt arises after reliance on undesirable things.

How is anger arising after reliance on undesirable things? Anger
arises naturally after reliance on undesirable things: "He Has gone
against me.” Anger has arisen; “He has acted against me.” Anger has
arisen; ...does not good...will do badly." Anger arises; "He has done
good for my unloved, unsatisfactory...does good...will do good." Anger
arises, and this is the order of obedience Anger arises after a person
does not want things.

How does anger arise after clinging to a desirable thing? Anger
arises when fear is robbed of the desired thing, anger arises when it is
robbed, anger arises when it has been robbed; Anger also arises when it
has changed, and anger arises when it has changed, so that anger arises
after relying on desirable things.

What is false speech after relying on unwanted things? Here, a
certain type of person is bound by the shackles of handcuffs, and in
order to break free from that shackle, deliberately false (saying
deliberate falsehood)...or bound by ropes...or bound by shackles...or
bound by rattan ropes ...or bound by the tethers of german...or tethered
by the tethers thrown in...or bound by the tethers of the fences...or
bound by the tethers of the villages, towns, cities and states...or
bound by the tethers of the place, for that tether The detachment of
deliberately speaking falsehood, such that false speech arises after
relying on undesired affairs.

What is false speech after relying on something desirable? Here, a
certain class of people deliberately speak falsehood for the reason of
the desired form, for the sake of the desired sound...for the
[desirable] smell...for the [desirable] taste...for the reason of the
[desirable touch]...for the clothes The reason...the reason for the
group meal...the reason for the reclining chair...the reason for the
patient's need for things and medical necessities is deliberately false.
This is to rely on things that people want and then generate lies.

What does doubt arise after clinging to an unwanted thing? "Am I
going to be free from eye disease? Will I be free from eye disease? Will
I be free from ear disease? Nose disease... Tongue disease... Body
disease... Head disease... External ear disease... Mouth disease... Will
I be free from tooth disease? Will I be free from dental disease? ' This
is the creation of doubts after clinging to unwanted things.

What is it like to have doubts after relying on something desirable?
"Will I get the desired color? Will I not get the desired color? Will I
get the desired voice? ... smell ... taste ... touch ... home ... people
... shelter ... gain ... fame ... praise ... pleasure ... clothes ...
food ... bedding ... the patient's needs, medical necessities. ' This is
to have doubts after clinging to a desirable thing. "For anger, false
words and doubts.

"When there is both, there are these things": "When there is
desirable and undesirable; when there is pleasure and pain; when there
is joy and sorrow; when there is desirable and desirable When not
wanting; when there is love, when there is aversion, when it is known,
when it is discovered [all]." For when there is both, there are these
dhammas.

"Those who doubt should learn on the path of wisdom": wisdom is the
path of wisdom; the object of wisdom is also the path of wisdom; the
dharma that arises with wisdom is also the path of wisdom, just as the
path of the holy is the path of the holy; the path of heaven is the path
of heaven; the path of Brahma is the path of Brahma Thus, wisdom is the
path of wisdom; the object of wisdom is also the path of wisdom; and the
dharma that arises with wisdom is also the path of wisdom.

"Learning", there are three kinds of learning: the learning of
increasing morality, the learning of increasing mind, and the learning
of increasing wisdom. What is an increase in precepts? Here, a bhikkhu
is a precept-holder, who lives underthe protection of the self-control
of Paratimcha, who is full of right conduct and behavior, who sees
terrible things in all the petty sins, who learns after receiving and
upholding them in various learnings. The small precepts and the big
precepts are the foundation of precept dependence, the [self] restraint
of behavior, the entrance of self-control, the good dharma and so on to
the top (achievement), this is the increase of precepts. What is Zeng
Shang Xin Xue? Here, the bhikkhu enters the fourth jhāna of [no pain or
pleasure, and mindfulness from tranquility ] after entering from the
liberation of desire... (abbreviated in the middle). What is Zeng Shang
Hui Xue? Here, the bhikkhu is the wise one, possessing the wisdom that
leadsto the arising and passing away , the holy, the insight, that
leadsto the complete cessation of suffering, and he knows as it really
is, "This is suffering."... (Abbreviated in the middle) Knows as it
really is, "This leads to the cessation of suffering. Path
traces."...(Abbreviated in the middle) Knowing truthfully, "These are
leaks."...(Abbreviation in the middle) Knowing truthfully, "These are
the path traces that lead to the leaks."

"Those who doubt should learn on the path of wisdom": "Those who
doubt, those who have doubts, confusions, doubts, and hesitations,
should learn to increase the precepts in order to attain wisdom, to
reach wisdom, and to bear witness to wisdom. The mind should learn to
increase wisdom. These three things should be learned when facing
(noticing); when knowing, you should learn; when you see, you should
learn; when you examine, you should learn; You should learn when you
overcome with faith; you should learn when you work hard; you should
learn when mindfulness arises; you should learn when you focus your
mind; you should learn when you understand with wisdom; you should learn
when you should be known. Learn; learn when omniscient should be known;
learn when abandon what should be abandoned; learn when practice what
should be practiced; learn when testify, practice, testify After good
practice and upholding, you should turn around.” Those who are doubtful
should learn on the path of wisdom.

"After knowing, all dharmas are explained by the ascetic": "After
knowing, after knowing, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying, being explained,
explained, explained, taught, told, told Established, revealed,
analyzed, explained, explained: "All formations are impermanent" after
knowing, understanding, measuring, judging, distinguishing, clarifying
and being said, being explained, being explained, being taught, told,
established, revealed, analyzed, explained, explained; "all actions are
suffering"... "all dharmas are non-self"... "all actions are conditioned
by ignorance (and All formations exist)"...(Middle abbreviation) "With
birth as a condition, there is old age and death"..."With the cessation
of ignorance, there is the cessation of formations (and the cessation of
formations exists)"... (Middle abbreviation) "With the cessation of
birth, there is the cessation of old age and death"... ..."This is
suffering"...(Abbreviated in the middle) "This is the path leading to
suffering"..."These are the afflictionsAbbreviated in the middle) "This
is the path leading to the leakage"..."These dharmas should be realized
"..."These dharmas should be known"..."these dharmas should be
discarded"..."these dharmas should be practiced"..."these dharmas should
be witnessed"...the rise and disappearance of the six senses , pleasure,
trouble, renunciation...the five aggregates of clinging...the four
major..."Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" after
knowing, understanding, evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and
clarifying Said, explained, explained, taught, told, established,
uncovered, dissected, explained, explained.

This was said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus! I teach the Dharma by
virtue of knowledge, but not by virtue of it; I teach the Dharma with
causation, but it is not without it; I teach the Dharma with
divinetransformation, but it is not without divine transformation ,
monks! When I teach the Dharma with the wisdom of witnessing, but not
without the wisdom of witnessing; I teach the Dharma with causation, but
not without it; when I teach the Dharma with divine transformation, but
not without divine transformation, [my] exhortation should be done; Be
done, monks! This is enough for you to be satisfied, joyful [pleasure],
joyful: the Blessed One is the UniversallyEnlightened One , the Dharma
is well spoken by [the Blessed One], and the Sanghais the one who does
good deeds. [ AN.3.126
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.126>]' and when
thisexposition was spoken , ten thousand worlds shook [ DN.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, para. 149]. "In order
to know the later dharmas, they were explained by the ascetic.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"When there are two kinds of anger, false words and doubts, there
are these dharmas. Those who

　doubt should learn on the path of wisdom, until they know that the
latter dharmas are explained by the ascetic."

104. Acceptable and undesired follow Where is the reason for it?
These don't exist when what doesn't exist?

　For the truth of non-existence and existence, please tell me where
is the reason for this.

"Where is the cause of the desirable and the undesirable": "Where is
the desirable and the undesirable from the cause? Where did it arise?
Where did it arise? Appearance? What is its cause? What is its set? What
is its birth? What is its root?" "He asks about the root of what is
desirable and what is undesired... (Abbreviated in the middle) He asks
about the set, he asks, begs, asks, and makes it Clear and pure." Where
is the reason for what is agreeable and what is unpleasant.

"When what does not exist these do not exist": "When what does not
exist, when not known they do not; when not found desirable and
undesirable they do not exist, do not exist, do not occur, do not arise,
Not to be produced, not to be born, not to be born." For these things do
not exist when they do not exist.

"That which does not exist and exists": "What is desirable and
undesirable existence? Whatever is desirable or undesirable exists, it
arises, it arises, it arises, it arises, it arises, it arises, it is
desirable, The existence of the undesired. What is the non-existence of
the desired and the undesired? The cessation, dissipation, destruction,
pervasive destruction, impermanence, disappearance of the desirable and
undesirable are the desirable and undesirable aspects of Does not exist.
'Whatever this truth' is the highest truth." For everything that does
not exist and exists this truth.

"Please tell me where this comes from and why it is": "'this',
whatever I ask; whatever I ask; whatever I ask; whatever makes me clear.
'Tell me', 'Tell me , please explain, please explain, please teach,
please inform, please establish, please unravel, please parse, please
clarify, please explain.” To please tell this for me. “From where? It is
the cause of it', whatever its cause, whatever its origin, whatever its
origin, whatever its origin." To ask you to tell me where this comes
from and its cause.

Because of that, Huaren said,

"Where is the cause of what is desirable and what is not desirable?
When what does not exist, these do not exist?

　For the truth of non-existence and existence, please tell me where
this comes from and its cause."

105. Desirable and undesired touch is the cause, and when the touch
does not exist, these do not exist.

　The truth of non-existence and existence, I will tell you this
from here is the reason.

"Desirable and undesired contact is the cause": the pleasant feeling
arises dueto the pleasant feeling, and whatever the cessation of the
pleasant contact corresponds to that feeling: the pleasant contact
arises because of the pleasant feeling It is extinguished; it is calmed
down. The unpleasant feeling arises due to the contact that should be
felt, and whatever the cessation of the contact that should feel the
pain corresponds to that felt: the painful feeling that arises because
of the contact that should feel the pain is extinguished; it is calmed
down. The non-painful and non-pleasant sensations arise because of the
non-painful and non-pleasant contacts that should be felt, and the
cessation of the non-painful and non-pleasant contacts corresponds to
what is felt: The non-painful and non-pleasant contacts arise because of
the non-painful and non-pleasant contacts. The neither bitter nor
pleasant feeling is extinguished; it is calmed down. "Consensual and
undesired contact is its cause": "desirable and undesired from contact
is its cause; from contact is its collection; from contact is its
origin; from contact is its source." Desirable touch is its cause.

"When touch does not exist these do not exist": "When touch does not
exist, when not known they do not; when not found desirable and
undesirable they do not exist, do not exist, do not occur, do not arise,
Not to be produced, not to be born, not to be born, not to appear." For
these do not exist when touch does not exist.

"The truth of non-existence and existence": "The view of existence
depends on touch as its cause; the view of non-existence also depends on
touch as its cause. 'All this truth' is the highest truth." For all
non-existence and existence This truth.

"I tell you this from here is the reason": "'this' to whomever you
ask; whatever you beg; whatever you ask; whatever makes you clear. 'I
tell', 'I tell, I explain , I teach, I inform, I establish, I uncover, I
decipher, I elucidate, I explain.' Tell this for you for me. 'From here
is its cause', from here: touch is its set; touch is its Birth; touch is
the source." Tell me this for you from here is the cause.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Consensual and undesired contact is the cause. When contact does
not exist, these do not exist.

　For the truth of non-existence and existence, I will tell you this
from here."

106. Then where does the contact in the world come from? The reason
for this, and where did the possessions come from?

　What I cling to does not exist when what does not exist?
Untouchable when what disappears?

"Then where does touch come from in the world and is its cause":
"'Where does touch come from? What is the cause? What is the collection?
What is the birth? What is the root?" He asked about the root of touch;
he asked about the reason... (Abbreviated in the middle) He asked about
the collection, and he asked, begged, asked, and made it clear." Where
does the touch in the middle come from is the reason.

"And from where are possessions abounded": "'Where are possessions
abounded? Where are they born? Where are they born? Where are they born?
What is the collection? What is the birth? What is the source?" He asked
about the root of all things; he asked the reason... (Abbreviated in the
middle) He asked about the collection, he asked, begged, asked, and made
it clear." where there are many.

"What I cling to does not exist when it does not exist": "When what
does not exist, when it is not known, it does not exist; when it is not
found, what I cling to does not exist, does not exist, is not known, and
is not discovered, has been To be abandoned, to be cut off, to be calmed
down, to be stopped, not to arise, to be burned by the fire of
knowledge." For when there is no ego there is no attachment.

"Untouchable when something disappears": "When something disappears;
when it does not exist; when it has crossed; when it has crossed; when
it has been overcome, it is untouchable." Why is it untouchable when it
disappears up.

Because of that, the Huaren said,

"Then where in the world does touch come from and its cause, and
where do possessions come from?

　When what is not there is no ego clinging to? Untouchable when
what's gone?

107. Because there is contact between name and form, the reason for
wanting has possessions.

　When wanting does not exist, there is no self-attachment. When
formis understood, contact cannot be reached.

"Contact is due to name and form": Eye-consciousness arises due to
eye and form, and the meeting of the three creates contact. There are
corresponding dharmas in the name (belonging to the name), so it is due
to the contact between name and form. Ear-consciousness arises due to
ear and sound, and the meeting of the three leads to contact. The ear
and the sounds in form (sounds belonging to form), besides ear-contact,
also have corresponding dharmas in the name. In this way, it is due to
the contact between name and form. The nose-consciousness arises due to
the nose and the smell, and the meeting of the three leads to touch. The
nose and the smells in the form, in addition to the nose-contact, also
have corresponding dharmas in the name. touch. Tongue-consciousness
arises from the tongue and taste, and the meeting of the three gives
rise to touch. The tongue and the tastes in form, in addition to
tongue-touch, also have corresponding dharmas in the name. touch. Body
consciousness arises due to the body and the contact, and the meeting of
the three gives rise to contact. The body and the contact in the form,
in addition to the body and the contact, also have corresponding dharmas
in the name. In this way, due to the name Touch with color.
Consciousness arises due to mind and dharma, the meeting of the three
leads to contact, the form on which [mind] depends [mind on; There are
corresponding dharmas in the name, so it is due to the contact between
name and form.

"The reason for wanting is possessions": wanting to be called
craving, that is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of greed and
unwholesome. "Properties", there are two kinds of possessions: [because
of] the possessions of craving and [because] of the possessions seen...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the possession of craving...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the possession of seeing . "The
cause of wanting has possessions": "Everything has wanting as its cause,
wanting as its cause, wanting as its condition, wanting as its cause,
and wanting as its source." The reason for wanting has possessions.

"There is no self-attachment when wanting does not exist": wanting
is called craving, that is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. "I'm attached", there are two kinds of
self-attachment: [because of] the self-attachment of craving and
[because of] the self-attachment of seeing... (Abbreviated) This is the
self-attachment of craving... (Abbreviated) This is It is what I see.
"When wanting is not there, there is no ego clinging to": "When wanting
is not there, when it is not known, it is not; Discarded, cut off,
calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, burnt by the fire of wisdom." For
when the desire is not there, there is no ego-attachment.

"When form is understood, touch is untouchable": "form", the four
elements and the form created by the four elements, "when form is
understood", the form is understood in terms of four kinds of
formations: to be understood by known, to be measured It is clear, Esha
has decided, and Yi has crossed it. How can it be made clear in the name
of what is known and what is clear? He knows form: "Any form, all form
is formed by the four elements and the four elements." He knows; he
sees, this is based on what is known and understood as form to be
understood.

How can it be made clear by measuring what is clear? After doing
this, he measures form, and he measures it as impermanent, suffering,
sick, tumor, arrow, calamity, disease, on the other side, corrupt,
calamity, calamity, terror, calamity, movement perishable, fragile,
unsteady, no shelter, no refuge, no refuge, abandoned, false, empty,
selfless, fault, transmutation, untruth, root of misfortune, Killer,
non-existent, leaky, active, magical food (bait), birth method, old
method, sick method, death method, sadness, sorrow, despair, pollution
method, gathering, extinction, happy taste , faults, renunciation, this
is to be understood by measuring and becoming clear.

How is it that the color of the judgment of the equanimity is made
clear? After measuring in this way, the desire for sex, the greed for
others, and the renunciation, drive away, make an end, and make it come
to non-existence. This was said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus, all
desires and lusts related to sex, you must give up, so that sex will be
abandoned and its roots cut off, [like] a palm tree whose roots have
been cut off and become non-existent, For the unborn thing in the
future. [ SN.22.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.25>]" This is to be
understood as a matter of equanimity.

How can it be made clear by transcending clearness? Those who have
attained the four immaterial forms are understood (disappeared), clear
(disappeared [following the example]), traversed, crossed, and overcome.
Taking these four forms as forms is understood.

"When form is understood, touch is not accessible": "When form is
understood; when it is made clear; when it is crossed; when it is
crossed; when it is overcome, the five touches are not touchable: eye
contact, ear contact , nose-touch, tongue-touch, body-touch." This means
that when form has disappeared, touch is not touched.

Because of that, the World-Honored One said:

"Because name and form have contact, the cause of desire has
possessions,

　when desire does not exist, there is no self-attachment, and when
form is understood, contact is unreachable."

108. How is the author ? Clear color? How can we understand pleasure
and pain?

　Please tell me this about clarity, may we know this: it is my will
to be like this.

"How to understand for the author": "How for the author", what for
the author (how for the author [the following example]); what the doer
is; what is the action; How is that which persists; how is that who
makes it clear; how it is made clear; it is traversed; it is crossed; it
is overcome. "To explain how the author understands the color.

"How to understand pleasure and pain": "How to understand pleasure
and pain; to make them clear; to be traversed; to be overcome; to be
overcome."

"Tell me this about clarity": "'This', 'Whoever I ask; Whoever I
beg; Whoever I ask; Whoever makes me clear.' For this. 'Tell me about
it', "Please tell me, please speak, please explain, please teach, please
inform, please build, please uncover, please analyze, please clarify,
please explain." Tell this. 'About understanding,' about understanding
in order for it to be made clear, to be crossed, to be overcome, to be
overcome." To tell you this about clarity for me.

"May we know this: it is my will to be like this": "'May we know
this', 'May we know this; Know this. "Like this is my will," like this
is my will; like this is my heart; like this is my intention; like this
is my consciousness." For may we know this: like this is I mean.

Because of that, Huaren said,

"How can the author understand color? How can you also understand
pleasure and pain?

　Please tell me about this understanding, and may we know this: it
is my will to be like this."

109. He is right and wrong. Those who think, not those who have
thoughts apart from thoughts, nor those who have no thoughts, and those
who do not disappear,

　are so clear to the author, because part of the falsethoughts is
the cause.

"He is a thinker who is not thinking, and a thinker who is not apart
from thinking": "Those who are thinking are called those who live with
ordinary (natural) thinking, but he is not one who lives with ordinary
thinking. Those who think are called mad and those who are confused, but
he is not mad, nor is he confused." For he is a thinker who is not
thinking, a thinker who is not thinking.

"It is not a person who does not think, nor a person who does not
want to disappear": "Those who are without thinking are called those who
enter annihilation [waiting to arrive] and all beings who are without
thinking, but he is not someone who enters annihilation [waiting to
arrive], nor is he a being without thinking Those who want to disappear
are called those who attain the four formless forms, but they are not
those who attain the four formless forms.” They are neither those who
have no thoughts nor those who want to disappear.

"This is how the author understands form": "Here, the bhikkhu's
renunciation of pleasure... (abbreviated in the middle) he entered the
fourth jhāna, where he dwells in.... In the mind, it is so sammed,
ubiquitously pure, purified, and impure. , away from thedefilements ,
soft, suitable for work, living, reaching , immobileWhen the time came,
in order to get what he was waiting for in the boundless void, he pulled
out his heart and turned to the colorless material. So for the author;
so for the doer; so for the doer; so for the one who turns it; so for
the guardian; so for the one who sustains it; so for the one who
persists; so clear; so made clear; so passed; passed over; be overcome.
"To be so clear for the author.

"Because the part of vain thinking is its cause": "Illusion is the
part of vain: craving for the part of vain, seeing the part of vainness,
slowing down the part of vainness, thinking is its cause; thinking is
its collection; thinking is its birth; thinking It is the root of it.”
Because the false part of thinking is the cause.

Because of that, the World-Honored One said:

"He is a thinker who is not thinking, a thinking person who is not
free from thinking, nor a person without thinking, nor a person who
disappears

　, because the author is so clear about form, because part of the
false thinking is the cause."

110. Whatever we ask of you, you tell us, we will ask you about the
rest, come on! Please tell me about that,

　do some of the wise men here tell me about this area: the first
purity of the Yaksha, or do they say something else?

"Whatever we ask of you, you speak for us": "whatever we ask of you,
what we beg, what we ask, what makes us clear. 'You speak for us', told,
explained, explained, taught , to be told, to be established, to be
uncovered, to be parsed, to be elucidated, to be explained.” Thou speaks
for us to whom we ask of you.

"We want to ask you something else, come! Please tell that": "We
want to ask you something else; we want to ask you something else; we
want to ask you something else; we want you to purify something else; we
want to ask You are better. "Come! Please tell that", come! Please tell;
Please explain; Please teach; Please inform; Please establish; Please
explain." For we want to ask you something else, come on! Please tell that.

"Whether some of the sages here tell about this area: the first
purity of Yaksha": "Some recluses, brahmins say, talk, talk, explain,
talk about this formless and so on is the first and the best , the
supreme, the first, the highest, the highest. "Yaksha", sentient beings,
human, student Brahman, human, personal, life, to the born, sentient, to
Indra Raja's, Manu-born. "Pure", pure, pure, completely pure; freed,
liberated, freed from everywhere. "The wise ones here", the wise
speakers here, the firm speaks The one who [has] the method, the one who
[has] the reason, the one who [has] the characteristic, the one who
[has] the basis, the one who makes his own claim possible.” As to
whether some of the sages here tell about this area: The First Purity of
Yaksha.

"Or do they say something else": "Or some ascetics, Brahmins, they
pass through, cross, overcome these formless and so on, and then talk,
talk, talk, explain, talk about this formless and so on, and there are
other superior Yakshas. Pure, pure, all pure; free, liberated, all
free?” Or do they say something else?

Because of that, Huaren said:

"Whatever we ask of you, tell for us, we'll ask you about the rest,
come on! Tell that,

　whether some of the wise men here tell you in this area: the first
of the Yakshas. Purity, or do they say something else?"

111. Are there some wise men here who tell this range: Yaksha's
first purification,

　but it belongs to some of them who claim to be skillful, they tell
annihilation, no residue of.

"There are certain sages here who have told this range: the first
purity of Yaksha": "There are certain ascetics and brahmins who are
eternalists, they say, talk, talk, explain, talk about this colorless
and so on. The first, the best, the best, the highest, the highest, the
highest. "Yaksha's", all beings, human, student Brahman, human,
personal, life, to the born , sentient beings, to those born of Indra,
those born of Manu. "Pure", pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, freed from everywhere. "The wise ones here", the wise ones
here A speaker, a firm speaker, a speaker with a method, a speaker with
a reason, a speaker with a characteristic, a speaker with a basis, a
speaker with one's own assertion A possible speaker." Because some of
the sages here tell us about this area: the first purity of the Yaksha.

"But it belongs to some of them who claim to be skillful, and they
tell cessation and no remnant": "Belonging to those recluses and
Brahmins, some of whom are cessationists, those who fear existence, they
rejoice in nothingness, They inform 'the stillness, stillness, calmness,
cessation, cessation of all beings': ' Sir!Whoever has been cut off and
vanished from the disintegration of the body since the true self; it
ceases to exist after death, and there is no remnant of this condition.
』『 declares skillful one, skilled talker, wise talker, firm talker,
[with] method, [with] reason, [with] characteristic Those who speak of
their own, those who have a basis, those who make their own claims
possible." As but for some of them who claim to be skillful, they tell
the annihilation and the no residue.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"There are some wise men here who tell this range: the first purity
of the Yaksha,

　but belong to some of them who claim to be skillful, and they tell
the annihilation and no residue."

112. Knowing "These are dependents." After knowing that the Empress
Muni is an investigator in terms of dependence,

　he will not come to argue after knowing that and become a
liberated person, and the wise will not meet with all kinds of things.

"After knowing that 'these are dependent on'": "'These' are those
who have bad views. 'Dependent', after knowing '[These are] common
depending on'; After knowing "relying on what is often judged," he
understands, measures, judges, separates, and makes clear." To know that
"these depend on".

"After knowing that Muni is an examiner in terms of dependence":
"'Muni', Muni iscalled wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) After
transcending and dyeing the net, he is Muni. Muni knows '[These are]
After relying on the common"; after knowing "depending on the judgment";
after knowing "depending on the common judgment", after he understands,
after measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying.
"He is the examiner ', he is a wise man, a wise man, an enlightened man,
a wise man, a wise man, and a wise man." In order to know about Empress
Muni's dependence, he was an investigator. "After knowing, becoming a
liberated one, he does not come to argue": "'After knowing, after
understanding, after measuring, after judging, after distinguishing,
after clarifying. 'The liberated', 'the liberated, the liberated, the
universal liberated Those who are good at liberation are liberated after
non-attachment: "All actions are impermanent." After knowing,
understanding, evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying, they
become liberators, liberators, universal liberators, good liberations
Those who are liberated are finally liberated after not grasping; "All
actions are suffering"... "All dharmas are non-self"... (Abbreviated in
the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is cessation of dharmas" After
knowing, understanding, evaluating, and judging After, after separation,
and after clearing it up, one becomes the one who is freed, one who is
freed, one who is universally freed, and one who is good at liberation.
' In order to become a liberator after knowing it. "He doesn't come to
argue," he doesn't quarrel, doesn't argue, doesn't argue, doesn't argue,
doesn't disagree. This was said by the Blessed One: 'Achivishna! A
bhikkhu with such a liberated mind disagrees, does not argue, speaks
what the world says without clinging. [ MN.74
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=74>]'" He did not come to
argue that he would become a liberator after knowing it.

"Will the wise be reconciled with all kinds of existence?": "'With
all kinds of existence' The karmic existence is re-existing with the
immaterial existence; the karmic existence with the immaterial existence
is re-existing again and again; it is re-existing with the repeated
interesting places, re-birthing with the re-birth again and again, and
rebirth with the re-emergence of the individual again and again.
Gathering, not holding, not clinging, not clinging. "The wise", the wise
are the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise."
Being the wise and the various meet.

Because of that, the World-Honored One said,

"After knowing 'these are dependence', knowing that Empress Muni is
a researcher in dependence, and

　knowing that he becomes a liberated person, he will not come to
argue, and the wise will not meet with all kinds of things."

The Eleventh [Completed] of Explanation of the Quarrel and Argument
Scriptures.


Notes:
　1. Name and color → touch → agreeableness → desire → love → quarrel /
sorrow / anger / doubt / stingy / slow / alienation / lying.
　2. Those who have wishes and fulfillers have an afterlife.
　12/12/2020 11:15
Note:

 "Transformation" (nimmito, also translated as "transformed
person"), "Dharma Light" says that it is "the person who has been
transformed by the Buddha" (nimmitabuddhaṃ), that is, the transformed
person transformed by the Buddha. The tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth sutras are all of this pattern.

 "When it is understood" (vibhūte, the verb "understands" vibhoti),
another meaning is "when it has disappeared" (vi+bhūte, the verb
"disappears" vibhoti=vibhavati=vi+bhavati), both here are valid , "Light
of the Dharma" is explained as "overcome; transcended" (vītivattaṃ),
which is the same as the following explanation, and is now translated
accordingly.
