Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
13. Instructions for disposing of theGreat Sutra

Next , the instructions for disposing of the Great Sutra will say:

130. Those who stay in any of these views, and those who tell "this
is the truth",

　those who only incur rebuke, or are they also Where to get
compliments?

"Anything of any of these views": "'Anything', completely,
completely, in every way, completely, without remainder, whole, this is
the word that is universally grasped for 'everything'. Some recluses and
brahmins arethose who have bad views. After they hold, grasp, pick up,
grasp, and cling to one of the sixty-two bad views, they abide on their
own views and share them together. Dwelling, dwelling, dwelling
(pervasive dwelling), such as dwelling in a family's home, or sinful one
dwelling in sin, or tainted dwelling dwelling in pollution. Likewise,
some... (abbreviated) dwelling (pervasive dwelling). ' for those who
stay in any of these views.

"And those who tell 'this is real'": "'The world is permanent, this
is real, everything else is empty.' They tell, talk, talk, explain,
talk; the world is very Heng's... (abbreviated in the middle) "After
death the Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist, this is the real,
and the rest are empty." They tell, talk, talk, explain, talk." For and
those who tell "this is the real".

"Those all followed only rebuke": "Those ascetics and brahmins all
followed only rebuke, only rebuke, only rebuke; all only rebuked, only
rebuke, only rebuke." For those who all followed only rebuke .

"Or are they praised there too?": "There, with their own views,
their own likes, their own hobbies, their own ideas, they get, obtain,
reach, find praise, praise, praise, and can carry praise. ' For or are
they praised there too?

Because of that, Huarensaid,

"Anyone who stays with any of these views, and those who tell 'this
is true,'

　are all those who only incur rebuke, or are they praised there as
well?"

131. This is a little It is not enough for peace. I said that there
are two consequences of arguing.

　After seeing this, he should not argue: he regards the one who
does not argue as the stable one.

"This is little, insufficient for peace": "'This is little', 'This
is little; this is inferior; this is only some; this is low; this is
inferior intention "This is trivial." For this is little. "Insufficient
for peace", what belongs to greed is to peace, what belongs to hatred is
to peace, what belongs to delusion is to peace, what belongs to anger
... of resentment ... of hidden evil ... of tyranny ... of jealousy ...
of stinginess ... of deceit ... of cunning ... of stubbornness ... of
passion ... of The slow... of the very slow... of the arrogant... of the
indulgence... of all the pollution... of all the evil deeds... of all
the afflictions... of the scorching heat... of all the heat Annoyed . .
. belonging to all unwholesome contrivance is insufficient for
tranquility, for stillness, for tranquility, for cooling, for cessation
of thoughts, for cessation." For this is less. , is insufficient for peace.

"I say there are two fruits of arguing": "The quarrel of sight, the
argument of sight, the quarrel of sight, the argument of sight, and the
disagreement of sight have two fruits: victory and defeat; gain and
loss; fame, There is no reputation; there is rebuke and praise; there is
pain and pleasure; there is joy and depression; there is satisfaction
and dissatisfaction; there is love and disgust; there is pride and
depression; It leads to hell, leads to the realm of beasts, leads to the
realm of hungry ghosts.' I say, I explain, I teach, I inform, I
establish, I uncover, I analyze, I clarify, I explain." There are two.

"After seeing this he should not argue": "'After seeing this', 'This
fault: after seeing quarrel, seeing dispute, seeing quarrel, seeing
disputing, seeing disagreement after seeing, after seeing , after
weighing, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying." After
seeing this. "He should not argue," he [should not argue,] should not
quarrel, should not argue, should not quarrel , should not be arguing,
should not be arguing, arguing, arguing, arguing, arguing, arguing,
arguing, arguing, arguing, arguing, escaping, ending, and bringing it to
non-existence. Disputes, quarrels, dissent, separation, abstinence,
abstinence, renunciation, departure, liberation, and bondage, he should
abide with a mind free from being restricted.” After seeing this, he
should not argue .

"Those who regard uncontested as secure": "What is called without
contention is immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of
allactions, the cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving,
the cessation of craving, the cessation of nirvana ,and the cessation of
all actions . See, See, watch, contemplate, observe that which is
indisputably safe, shelter, refuge, refuge, fearless, immortal,
immortal, nirvana." Seeing indisputably as stable.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"This is little, and is not enough for peace. I say that there are
two consequences of arguing.

　After seeing this, he should not argue: he who does not argue is
the one who is stable

. " If he doesn't reach all of this,

　why would he come to attachment without attachment: he doesn't
like what he sees and hears?

"Whatever any of these mundane general views": "'Whatever', all
completely, every aspect completely, without remainder, whole, this is
the universal word, 'whatever'. 'General view' , the general view is
called the general view of the sixty-two evil views. "Ordinary",
"general view arising from ordinary people" is common, or "general view
arising from a wide variety of people" is common ." For any such mundane
general opinion.

"The wise do not reach all of this": "The wise are those who have
reached enlightenment, the wise, the wise, and the wise. The worldly
view guides all this, and he does not reach, reach, hold, grasp, or
cling to. ." For the wise do not arrive at all of this.

"Why do people without attachments come to attachment?":
"'attachment', there are two kinds of attachments: attachment to craving
and attachment to seeing... (Middle abbreviation) This is the attachment
to craving... (Middle abbreviation) This is seeing Attachment. For him,
the attachment to craving has been abandoned; the attachment to seeing
has been abandoned, and the attachment to craving has been abandoned and
the attachment to seeing has been abandoned. Why do people of this type
reach, reach, hold, grasp, and cling to color as my true self?
Feeling... thinking... acting... knowing... interest... rebirth...
rebirth... having (existence) . . . samsara . . . why does samsara
arrive, reach, hold, grasp, cling to?" As a non-attachment, why did he
come to clinging.

"Do not like what you see or hear": "What you see, or what you see
is pure, or what you hear, or what you hear is pure, or what you
perceive, or what you feel is pure, do not like what you like, do not
want, do not love, do not do Those who are greedy; those who do not make
them born, those who are not produced, those who are not born, those who
are not born.” Those who do not like what they see and hear.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Any of these common views, the wise does not reach all of this.

　Without attachment, why would he come to attachment: one who does
not like what he sees and hears?"

133. Take precepts as the highest They say with [self] restraint as
purity: those who arise after being restrained,

　let us learn here and then there will be purity, claiming that the
skilled are led to being.

"Those who take precepts as the highest, they say that [self]
restraint is pure": "Some ascetic and Brahmins are precepts, and they
take the degree of precepts, the degree of [self] restraint, the degree
of self-control, and the degree of non-violation. The degree of purity
is pure, pure, all-round pure; free, liberated, free from all, "they
say, tell, talk, talk, explain, talk."

The son of the monk Muti Ge said: "House owner! Men are those who
possess goodness, the highest goodness, the attainers of supreme
attainments, and the invincible ascetics. Which four are they? The owner
of the house! Evil intentions and intentions, do not live and live as
evil, lord! I establish that the man who possesses these four dharmas is
the perfect one, the supreme one, the supreme attainer, the invincible
ascetic [ MN.78 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=78>]. In
the same way, some ascetic and Brahmins are the highest sectarians of
precepts. They regard the degree of precept, the degree of [self]
restraint, the degree of self-control, and the degree of non-violation
as pure, pure, and universally pure; liberation, liberation, and
universality. Disengagement, 'they speak, tell, talk, talk, explain,
talk.'" For those who take morality as the highest they say that [self]
restraint is pure.

"Those who appear after being restrained": "'Forbidden', like
restraint, or restraint of horses, or restraint of cattle, or restraint
of dogs, or restraint of crows, or restraint of Vishnu, or restraint of
Litian, or restraint of mansions , or Zhuxian prohibition, or fire
prohibition, or dragon prohibition, or Garuda prohibition, or Yaksha
prohibition, or Asura prohibition, or Gandhara prohibition, or Great
King prohibition, or month prohibition, or daily prohibition, or Indra
Forbidden, or Brahma’s prohibition, or God’s prohibition, or orientation
prohibition, after they grasp, after holding, after taking, after taking
on, after picking up, after grasping, after clinging, they are
manifested, manifested, and stuck. , was entered, tainted, and turned
toward the heart." It is a person who appears after being restrained.

"Let's learn right here and then there will be purity": "'Here', in
one's own views, one's own likes, one's own hobbies, one's own opinions.
"Let's learn", let's learn, let's practice, let's practice, let's turn
around after being sustained. ' For let us learn right here. "Then there
will be purity," and then there will be purity, purity, universal
purity; emancipation, liberation, emancipation. "For let us learn right
here and then there will be purity.

"It is claimed that the skilled person is led to existence":
"'Guided to existence', 'led to existence, caught in existence, grasped
to existence, directed towards existence' is to be led to existence.
"Anyone who claims to be skillful", a talker of skill, a talker of
wisdom, a talker of solidity, a talker of [having] methods, a talker of
[with] reasons, the talker of [having] characteristics The one who
speaks, the one who [has] grounds, the one who makes his own claims
possible." The skilled one is led to existence for the claim.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"Those with precepts as supreme they say that with [self] restraint
is purity: those who arise after being restrained,

　let us learn here and then there will be purity, claiming that the
skilled are led to being. 134. If he

dies from precepts and prohibitions, and he trembles after his
actions fail,

　he hopes and prays for purity, like a traveller from home
abandoned by a caravan.

"If he dies from precepts and prohibitions": "He dies from precepts
and restraints for two reasons: does he die when he is interrupted by
others, or does he die when it is not achieved. How to interrupt him by
others Is he dead? "Interruption by others": The master is not all wise,
the Dharma is not spoken by goodness, [their] group is not good deeds,
the view is not good, the traces of the Tao are not established by
goodness, the Tao is not detached, in Here there is no purity, or pure,
or universally pure; or detachment, or liberation, or universally
detached, there is no where they become pure, or pure, or universally
pure; or detached, or liberated, Or being detached from everywhere is
inferior, inferior, inferior, inferior, inferior in intention, trivial,
this is "interruption by others". In this way, when interrupted, the
master is dead, and the teaching of the Dharma is dead. , Did the group
die, did he see the death, did the Dao trace die, did the Dao die, so he
was interrupted by others. Did he die when he did not reach the precept?
Did he never die when he did not reach the precept? When the prohibition
is not reached, he will die from the prohibition, and when the precept
and the prohibition are not reached, he will die from the precept and
the prohibition, and thus will he die when the prohibition is not
reached.” For if he is from the precept and the prohibition, will he die.

"He trembled after the act failed": "'He trembled', ""Precept or
prohibition or precept and prohibition was lost by me; violated by me;
turned upside down by me; lost by me, I am a transgressor in total
wisdom." He shivered, shivered (strong shiver), shivered (strong
shiver). ' trembling for him. "After the failure of the act,"
"Fulfillment or non-blessedness or immovable action is lost by me;
violated by me; turned upside down by me; lost by me, and I am a
transgressor in total wisdom. ' He trembled, trembled, trembled. ' he
trembled as the act failed.

"He desires and prays for purity": "'He desires', 'He desires
abstinence, or he desires restraint, or he desires abstinence and
restraint, he desires, prays.' Wish for him. 'And pray for purity', he
Pray for the purity of precept, or he wishes for the purity of
restraint, or he wishes for the purity of precept and restraint." Pray
and pray for purity for him.

"If a man who travels far from home is abandoned by the caravan":
"If a man has left home, and uses the caravan as a traveler, a resident
(living person), and he is abandoned by the caravan, he may pursue that
caravan Or go home. In the same way, the one who has an evil view either
holds that master, or holds other masters; Other groups; either hold
that view, or hold other views; or hold that path, or hold other signs;
or hold that path, or hold other paths, he takes, clings." Those who
traveled far from home were abandoned by the caravan.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"If he dies from the precepts and restraints, and he trembles when
his actions fail,

　he desires and prays for purity, as one who travels far from home
is abandoned by the caravan."

135. But abandon all precepts and restraints . , and after this
sinful and innocuous act,

　those who do not pray for "purity and impurity" and who have
abstained from taking up silence can do it.

"But let go of all precepts and restraints": "After the purity of
all [cause] precepts is renounced, after renunciation, after expulsion,
after completion, and after it has ceased to exist, after the purity of
all [cause] restraints is renounced, After renunciation, after
expulsion, after completion, after making it to non-existence, after the
purity of all [cause] precepts and prohibitions is abandoned, after
renunciation, after expelling, after completion, after making it to
non-existence. "Abandon all precepts and prohibitions for Dan.

"And after this sinful and innocuous act": "The sinful action is
called black, with black retribution; the innocent action is called
white, with white retribution. After the sinful and innocuous actions
are discarded , after abandoning it, after driving it away, after making
it to an end, after making it come to non-existence.” For and after this
sinful and innocuous act.

"Those who do not desire 'pure and impure'": "'Impurity', they
desire impure: they desire unwholesome things; Dhamma, they desire five
desires; they desire purity: they desire sixty-two evil views. They
desire impurity: they desire unwholesome dharmas, they desire five
desires, they desire sixty-two evil views; they desire purity: they
desire The wholesome dharmas in the three realms. They desire impurity:
they desire the unwholesome dharmas, they desire the five kinds of
realms; Thestudents seek the Arahant Realm of the First Dharma. The
Arahants who have reached the Arahant Realm do not wish to seek
unwholesome dharmas, nor the five desires, nor the sixty-two evil views,
nor the good dharmas in the three realms, nor the determination. He does
not wish to enter the realm of the first-dharma arahant. The one who
seeks transcendence, the arahant has surpassed growth and retreat, he is
a person who has descended into a state, a person who has practiced
behavior... (Abbreviated in the middle). " for those who do not wish for
"pure and impure".

"Abstinence can do after not picking up stillness": "The
'abstainer', 'he has been separated from the pure and impure, abstained,
abstained, renounced, renounced, liberated, renounced When he is bound,
he lives with a mind free from being restricted.” Those who have
abstained from it. “Able to walk,” “able to move, able to stay, able to
move, able to turn around, able to protect, able to survive, able to
survive.” To live.” For those who have abstained from it. “After not
picking up the silence,” the silence is called the silence of the
sixty-two bad views, and he [keeps] not holding, not grasping, not
clinging.” For those who have abstained from not picking up silence can do.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"But after renunciation of all precepts and prohibitions, as well as
this sinful and innocuous act,

　those who do not wish for 'purity and impurity' and who have
abstained from taking up silence can do it."

136. After abstinence or aversion, or even after seeing or hearing
or feeling,

　After going forward they proclaimed purity, that those who were
not separated from cravings were in all existences.

"Depending on asceticism or aversion": "Some recluses and brahmins
are asceticand abhorrent , with ascetic and aversion at their core,
ascetic and abhorrent dependent, abstained, clinging, trapped, clinging,
mind Towards (the solution of victory)." To rely on asceticism or aversion.

"Or even after seeing or hearing or feeling": "The purity of what is
seen or seen; the purity of what is heard or heard; the purity of what
is felt or felt, after relying, after relying, after picking up,
grasping Afterwards, after attachment.” or even after seeing or hearing
or feeling.

"After going forward, they proclaimed purity": "Some ascetic and
Brahmins are followers of forwardand backward. Which recluses and
Brahmins are followers of forward and after? All ascetic and Brahmins
are the ultimate pure, the pure in samsara, and without work. The seers,
the perpetualists, these ascetic, brahmins, they are the scholars of the
former and the latter. They applaud, inform, talk, talk, explain, and
say that samsara is pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated, and
universally freed.” After going forward they declare purity.

"Those who are not separated from craving are in all beings": "The
craving of form, the craving of sound, the craving of smell, the craving
of taste, the craving of touch, the craving of Dhamma. "In all kinds of
existence", in the various existence of karma, in the re-existence of
desire; in the karma of desire, in the re-existence of form; in the
karma of form, in the formless existence In the re-existence; in the
karmic existence of the formless existence, in the re-existence of the
re-existence; in the re-existence of the destination, the rebirth in the
rebirth, the rebirth again and the rebirth, the birth of the individual
again and again, not separated from the craving. , those who do not
leave craving, those who do not abandon craving, those who do not
eliminate craving, those who do not liberate craving, those who do not
abandon craving, and those who do not renounce craving.” For those who
have not separated from craving .

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"After relying on ascetic practices or aversions, or even after
seeing or hearing or feeling,

　they proclaimed that they were pure, not separated from cravings,
among all beings."

137. There is indeed a desire for the supplicant, and trembling in
determination,

　for whoever does not exist here with death and death, why does he
tremble or where does he desire?

"There are indeed desires for the seeker": "desire is called
craving, which is greed, greed (totally greed)... (abbreviated in the
middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. To the one who desires, to
the one who desires, to the one who desires, to the one who receives it,
to the one who desires, to the one who asks.” To the one who desires.
“There are indeed desires.” , craving is called craving, that is greed,
greed... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome greed." Because there
are indeed cravings for those who wish.

"Also tremble in the fixation": "fixed view", there are two kinds of
fixation: [because of] the fixation of craving and [because of] the
fixation of the view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the fixation
of craving... ... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the opinion of the
view. "And trembling in judgment": "When things are fixed they tremble
when they fear being robbed, they tremblewhen they are robbed; , they
tremble when they are changed, and they also tremble, and tremble, and
tremble when they are changed." For also trembling in the fixation.

"To those who do not have death and rebirth here": "'To all...', to
an arahant; to those who have exhausted their defilements. Wherever they
come, come, come, and die In the place of interest, all kinds of things
pass away, are born, are born, disintegrate, are born, age, die, they do
not exist, they do not exist, they are not known, they are not
discovered, they are abandoned, they are cut off, they are calmed down,
they are stopped, they cannot be found. Arise, be burned by the fire of
wisdom." For those who do not have death and rebirth here.

"Why does he tremble or where does he look eagerly": "'Why does he
tremble with greed? Why does he tremble with hatred? Why does he tremble
with ignorance? Why does he tremble with slowness? Why does he tremble
with sight? Why does he tremble? Why does he tremble? Why does he worry
potential trends?He will tremble and become a "tainted one," or a
"disgusting one," or a "foolish one," or a "bound one," or a "grasped
one," or "comes to the distracted," or "comes to the stray one."
Undesirable", or "coming to the fortitude"? Those fabrications have been
discarded, and in what way will he tremble in the state where all
fabrications have been discarded, and become "a person who has fallen
into hell," or "a person who has fallen into the realm of animals," or
"a person who has fallen into the realm of hungry ghosts," or a "human
being." Or "Heaven," or "Those with color," or "Those who have no
color," or "Those who think," or "Those who don't think," or "Those who
are neither thinkers nor non-thinkers"? He has no cause, no predestined
relationship, no factor so that he will tremble, tremble, tremble
greatly. 'Why does he tremble. "Or where would he be eager", or where
would he be eager? On which would he be eager to? Where would he long
for; would desire; would he supplicate? "Why would he tremble or where
would he be eager?

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"There is indeed ardent desire for the one who seeks, and trembling
in determination,

　for whoever does not have death and rebirth here, why does he
tremble or where does he desire?

138. Where some people say " it is the highest", but others say
"that is the worst,"

　then which of these people is true? Because these people are all
professing skillful ones.

"There are some people who say 'it is the highest' of all things."
"All things, views, traces, and paths, some ascetic and brahmins say
this, say this, say this, explain this, say this: 'This is the highest ,
the first, the best, the best, the highest, the highest, the highest.””
For the common law, some people say, “It is the highest.”

"But others say 'that's what is inferior'": "On that Dharma, view,
path, path, some ascetics and brahmins say this, say this, say this,
explain this, say this: 'This is inferior It's vile, it's inferior, it's
inferior, it's inferior in intention, it's trivial." For but others say
"that's just inferior."

"Then which one of these speakers is true": "Which one of these
recluses and brahmins is true, truthful, genuine, factual, correct, and
unreversed?" So which one of these speakers is true? .

"Because these people are all proclaiming skillful ones": "These
ascetics and brahmins are all skillful talkers, wise talkers, firm
talkers, [have] methods, [have] The talker of reasons, the talker of
[having] characteristics, the talker of grounds, the talker of their own
assertions as possible.” For these are all those who claim to be skillful.

Because of that, Huaren said:

"Whereas some people say 'it is the highest', but others say 'that
is the worst',

　which of these is true? These are all proclaiming skillful ones.

139. Indeed, they say that their own Dharma is perfect, and that
other people's Dharma is inferior.

　After holding this, they argue, and they say their own views are
true.

"It is true that they say that their own Dharma is perfect": "Their
own Dharma, view, path, path, some ascetics and Brahmins say so...
(abbreviated in the middle) say this: 'This is complete, complete,
perfect. '" For sure they say that their Dharma is perfect.

"And it is said that the Dharma of other people is inferior": "The
Dharma, view, path, and path of other people, some ascetics and brahmins
say this, say this, say this, explain this, say this: 'This is inferior
, this is inferior, this is inferior, this is inferior, this is inferior
in intention, this is insignificant.”” To say that the Dharma of others
is inferior.

"After grasping like this, they argue": "After grasping, grasping,
picking up, clinging, clinging, they argue, quarrel, argue, argue,
argue, disagree: 'You don't know This law, the law... (abbreviated in
the middle) or please untie it, if you can."" They argued after holding
it in this way.

"They say their views are real": "The world is permanent, this is
the real thing, and everything else is empty." They said their views are
real; the world is very permanent... "After death, the Tathagata neither
exists nor does not exist, this is the real thing, and the rest are
empty." They said their views were true.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"It is true that they say that their own Dharma is perfect, and that
other people's Dharma is inferior.

　After holding this, they argue, and they say their own views are
true."

140. If one is despised by opponents If they become inferior, there
will be no superiors in any dharma,

　because each of them tells others that the dharma is inferior, and
about themselves they are the ones who claim to be strong.

"If you are despised by your opponents, you will become inferior":
"If you are despised by your opponents, reprimanded, scolded, insulted,
your opponents [will] become fools, inferiors, despicables, inferiors,
inferiors , those with inferior intentions, and those who are
insignificant." To be despised by opponents, they will become inferior.

"Then there will be no supreme being in any Dharma: "There will not
be any first, supreme, supreme, supreme, supreme, supreme in any
Dharma." There will be no winners.

"Because they all tell others that the laws are vile": "the majority
say, reproach, accuse, rebuke the [other] laws of the majority as vile,
vile, inferior, low, low-minded, trivial One also says, reproaches,
accuses, rebukes [other] the majority of the law as inferior, vile,
inferior, low, low-minded, trivial. One also says, reproaches, accuses,
reprimands [another] one's The law is inferior, inferior, inferior,
inferior, inferior in intention, trivial." For the law [is inferior]
because they each tell others.

"{being despicable,} about oneself is a proclaimer of firmness":
"one's own law, one's own view, one's own path, one's own way, a firm
talker, a firm talker on his own path The speaker, the strong talker,
the established talker." For {being despicable,} about oneself a
claimant strong.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"If one is despised by one's opponents and becomes inferior, there
is no superior in any dharma,

　because each of them informs others that the Dharma is inferior,
and as regards himself, he claims to be strong."

141. And the Dharma that they respect is true,and if they praise
their own way,

　then everything they say will be true, because to those who are
pure is their own.

"And the Dharma that oneself respects is the real one": What is the
respect of one's own Dharma? Reverence, respect, worship, respect for
one's own master: "This master is all wise." This is the respect of
one's own Dharma. Telling about one's own Dharma... one's own group...
one's own views... one's own path'... one's own path Respect, respect,
worship, honor: "This path is renunciation." This is the way of one's
own law Respect. "The Dharma that oneself respects is true": "The
respect [of one's Dharma] is true, truthful, true, factual, correct, and
not upside-down." The Dharma that oneself respects is true.

"As they praised their own way": "The Dharma is their own way, their
vision is their own way, the trail is their own way, the Tao is their
own way, and they praise, praise, praise, and exalt their own way." They
praised their way.

"Then all that is said will be true": "All that is said will be
true, true [, true], factual, correct, unreversed." Then all that is
said will be true.

"Because to those who are pure is their own": "To those ascetics and
brahmins that are pure, pure, completely pure; detachment, liberation,
and universal detachment are their own." Because to those who are pure
is their own .

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"And the Dhamma that they respect is true, and if they praise their
way,

　then everything they say will be true, because to those who are
pure is their own."

142. To Brahmins Said not to be led by others, [and] to be held
firmly after being chosen in the Dharma,

　so the argument has been thrown out because he does not regard
other Dharmas as the most victorious.

"For Brahmins not guided by others": "No" is negative. "Brahman",
the excluded state of the seven dharmas is Brahman... (Abbreviated in
the middle) Those who do not rely on them can be called Brahman. "For
Brahmins who are not guided by others": "In the case of Brahmins who are
not guided by others, Brahmins are those who are not guided by others,
who do not depend on others, who do not depend on others, who have
reached and are not bound by others. , he [truly] knows, sees, is not
ignorant, knows, remembers: "All actions are impermanent" For Brahmins
who are not guided by others, Brahmins are those who are not guided by
others, who do not follow Those who stop others, those who do not depend
on others, who have reached those who are not bound by others, who
[truly] know, see, are not delusional, know well, and remember; "all
actions are suffering"...( Abbreviation) "Any collection of dharmas is
the annihilation of dharmas." For Brahmins who are not guided by others,
Brahmins are those who are not guided by others, who do not depend on
others, who do not depend on others, who have reached and are not bound
by others. [Truly] Knowing, seeing, is one who is not delusional, one
who knows, one who remembers." For Brahmins, he was not guided by others.

"After being chosen in the law, it is held tightly": "'in the law',
in the sixty-two evil views. "After choosing", after deciding, after
judging, after choosing, after checking, after measuring, after judging
, after separation, after clarification. ['being grasped',] limited
grasp, partial grasp, uppermost grasp, fixed grasp, accumulation grasp,
full accumulation grasp: "This is true [, as it is] , true, factual,
correct, not upside-down.” and held, grasped, clinging to, grasped,
believed and understood.” They do not exist, do not exist, are not
known, are not discovered, they have been abandoned Cut off, cut off,
calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom. "To
be held tightly after a legal decision.

"Therefore the dispute has been cast off": "'Therefore', therefore;
the reason; the cause; the condition; , has been crossed, has been
crossed, has been overcome." For this reason the argument has been cast
off.

"Because he does not regard other dharmas as the best": "Apart from
mindfulness, apart from right effort, apart from divine feet, apart from
faculties, apart from power, apart from enlightenment Outside the
branch, except for the Eightfold Noble Path, other masters, Dharma
narrations, groups, views, path traces, paths, he did not see, did not
see, did not watch, did not contemplate, did not observe [to] the first,
the most Victorious, sublime, highest, highest, highest dharma.” Because
he does not regard other dharmas as the highest.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"For a Brahmin who is not guided by others, [and] is held firmly
after being chosen in the dharma, and

　thus the argument has been put out of the way, because he does not
regard other dharmas as the best."

143. I know, I see it like that, some people go back to seeing as pure,

　if he sees to himself what can that be done? After going too far
they say other things pure.

"I know, I see it like that": "'I know,' either with his mind, or
with the wisdom of memory of past lives. 'I see', either with the naked
eye, or with the divine eye. See. 'It's like that', it's true, as it is,
true, factual, correct, not upside down." For I know, I see it like that.

"Some people return to seeing as pure": "Some recluses and Brahmins
return to see that as pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated,
universally freed: 'The world is eternal, this is the truth, everything
else is It is empty.” Some ascetics and brahmins return to seeing that
as pure, pure, and universally pure; emancipation, liberation, and
universal detachment; the world is very permanent... (Abbreviated in the
middle) “After death, the Tathagata neither exists nor does not exist.
It is true, and everything else is empty.” Some ascetics and brahmins
return to seeing view as pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated,
universally freed.” For some people return to view as pure.

"If he sees to himself, what can he do with that": "'he sees',
'either with his mind he sees, or with the wisdom of memory of past
lives abode he sees, or with the naked eye he sees, or with the divine
eye he sees Seeing." For if he sees it. "What can he do with that?" For
him, with that seeing, what has been done? There is no omniscience of
suffering, no collective abandonment, no Tao. Practice, testify without
fruit, renounce greed, renounce hatred, renounce delusion, renounce all
defilements, renounce samsara.” For if he See for himself what that can
do with that.

"After they have gone too far, they say that they are pure by other
things": "Those who are outsiders are not only by the four mindfulness,
but by the right effort, by the feet of the gods, by the faculties, by
the powers, With the enlightenment factors, in addition to the eight
noble paths, after crossing, crossing, overcoming the pure path, the
pure path, the pervasive pure path, the pure white path, and the
pervasive pure white path, they inform, talk, talk, explain, speak pure,
pure , all pure; freed, liberated, freed from everywhere." This means
that after they have gone too far, they say other things are pure.

Or, "After the buddhas, the disciples of the buddhas, and the
pratyekabuddhas have crossed, crossed, and overcome the non-pure path,
the non-pure path, the non-universal pure path, the non-pure white path,
and the non-universal pure-white path, they abide with the four
thoughts. , the four righteous efforts, the four spiritual feet, the
five faculties, the five powers, the seven factors of enlightenment, and
the eight noble paths of enlightenment, talk, talk, explanation, speech
pure, pure, universally pure; emancipation, liberation, universal
emancipation.” This is also the way to go. After too far they say other
things pure.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"I know, I see this like that, some people go back to seeing as pure,

　what if he sees that for himself what can he do? After going too
far they say something else pure . .”

144. The person who sees sees name and form, and after seeing it,
those who see it will be known, and

　let him see as much or as little as he wants.

"He who sees sees name and form": "He who sees sees, either with his
mind, or with the wisdom of recollection of previous lives, or with
physical eyes, or with heavenly eyes. The joyful, the true self, did not
see the arising of those dharmas, or their cessation, or their joys, or
their faults, or their renunciation.” Seeing name and form for those who
see it.

"Those who have seen are known": "After seeing," either with his
mind, or with the wisdom of recollection of previous lives, or with the
naked eye, or with the celestial eye. Those who are known to be normal,
happy, and true self, those dharmas that arise, or disappear, or happy,
or troubled, or leave, are not known.” After seeing those things, they
will be known.

"Let him see as much or as little as he pleases": "When he sees as
much or as little as he pleases, name and form are permanent, happy, and
true self." Let him see as he pleases more or less.

"Skillful people really don't use that to say pure": "'Skillful
people', those who are skillful in accumulation, skillful in world,
skillful in locating, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in
mindfulness, skillful in righteousness Skilled ones, skillful ones of
divine feet, skillful ones of roots, skillful ones of power, skillful
ones of enlightenment factor, skillful ones of path, skillful ones of
fruition, skillful ones of nirvana, those skillful ones either with
their mind or before. The wisdom of recollection in the abode of the
world, either with the physical eye or with the celestial eye, does not
speak, does not talk, does not talk, does not explain, and does not
speak: the vision of mind and matter is pure, pure, completely pure;
freed, liberated, completely freed.” It is true that the skilled do not
use that to say pure.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"He who sees sees name and form, and after seeing what he sees, he
knows what

　he sees, and lets him see as much or as little as he likes. It is
true that the skilled do not call that pure."

145 . Those who are not easilysubdued: those who value the fixed
view (overview) of the view,

　when declaring that whosoever who clings there is pure, the purist
there he sees like that.

"The adherents are indeed those who are not easily subdued": ""The
world is eternal, this is the real thing, and everything else is empty."
For the adherents; the world is very permanent... (Abbreviated in the
middle) "After death, the Tathagata is neither Existence is not
non-existence, this is the real, and everything else is emptiness.” He
is a clingist. “It is indeed difficult to subdue.” A clingist is one who
is difficult to subdue, who is difficult to tell, who is difficult to
consider, and who is difficult to see. , those who are difficult to
understand and purify.” Those who are obsessives are indeed those who
are not easy to subdue.

"Those who value the view of the fixed view (overlooked)": "The view
that builds, that is fixed, that is artificial, that makes it stand
together, and then do it. Seeing is a flag, seeing is a building, and
seeing is an increase. up, followed by seeing." He is the one who values
​​the view of fixed view (overview).

"When it is declared that whoever depends there is pure": "'Whoever
depends', 'everyone who speaks of the Master, the Dhamma, the group, the
view, the path, the path's dependence, cessation, clinging, Those who
fall into, fix themselves, and turn their hearts toward (the solution)”
are those who rely on them. “There”, in their own views, in their own
preferences, in their own preferences, and in their own opinions. It is
the pure time" is the speaker of purity, the speaker of goodness, the
speaker of wisdom, the speaker of firmness, the speaker of method, the
speaker of reason, The one who [has] characteristics, the one who [has]
grounds, the one who makes his own claims possible." For when it is
declared that whoever depends there is pure.

"Where the purist he sees like that": "'The purist (Suddhivādo), the
purist, the universal purist, the purist, the ubiquitous. Or, the pure
seer, the pure seer, the universally pure The seer, the seer of pure
whiteness, the seer of all-whiteness.' is the one of purity (suddhiṃ
vādo). 'There', in one's own view, in one's own liking, in one's
inclination, in one's own opinion "Real, as it is [, genuine], factual,
correct, uncontradictory.' He sees, sees, sees, understands." For the
purists there he sees like that.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"The clingingist is indeed the one who is not easy to subdue: the
appreciative of the fixed view (all-seeing) view,

　when he declares that whoever depends there is pure, the purist
there he sees like that.

146. A brahmin does not come to construction after considering it,
he is not a practitioner of seeing nor a relative of wisdom,

　and after he knows the general opinion of the mundane, he watches
while others pick it up.

"Brahmins do not come to construction after consideration": "No" is
negative. "Brahman", the excluded state of the seven dharmas is
Brahman... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who do not rely on them can
be called Brahman. "Construction", there are two kinds of constructions:
the construction of [cause] craving and the construction of [cause]
seeing... (Middle abbreviation) This is the construction of craving...
(Middle abbreviation) This is the construction of seeing. After
consideration, it is called wisdom, which is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the law, and right view. "The Brahmin does not come to construction
after considering it": "The Brahmin considers [, knows], understands,
weighs, judges, separates, and makes clear. All actions are
impermanent... All actions are suffering... (Abbreviated in the middle)
"Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas." After considering
[, after knowing], after understanding, after measuring, after judging,
after distinguishing, and after clarifying, the construction of craving
or the construction of seeing will not come or come. Reaching, not
reaching, not holding, not grasping, not clinging." After considering
for Brahmins, do not come to construct.

"He is neither a practitioner of vision nor a kinsman of wisdom":
"‘For him, the sixty-two bad views have been abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, and he does
not He is carried away, carried away, carried, carried by seeing, and he
does not return or return to that evil view as the core.” Because he is
not a practitioner of seeing. “Neither is a relative of wisdom.” The
five supernatural powers and wisdom establish, bring forth, bring forth,
bring forth, bring forth kinships of craving or kinsmen of seeing.” For
he is neither a practitioner of vision nor a kinsman of wisdom.

"And after he has known the general view of the ordinary": "After
knowing, after knowing, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. Any collection of
dharmas is the cessation of dharmas. "After knowing, understanding,
evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying." For and after he
knew. The general view is called the general view of the sixty-two evil
views. "Ordinary", "general views arising from ordinary people" are
common, or "general views arising from a wide variety of people" are
common. "Because he knew the general opinion of the vulgar.

"He looks on while others pick up": "Others hold, grasp, cling to
because of craving, because of seeing, Arahants look on, not holding,
not grasping, not clinging." Watching for him and others holding rise.

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"A brahmin does not come to construction after considering it, he is
not a practitioner of seeing nor a relative of wisdom,

　and after he knows the general opinion of the mundane, he looks on
and others pick it up."

147. Muni is here in the world of renunciation In conclusion, in the
debate that has arisen is not the one who joins the group, the

　one who is still is calm in the one who is not still, the one who
does not pick up and others pick up.

"After Muni abandoned the ties here in the world": "'Binding', there
are four kinds of ties: the greedy body tie, the malicious body tie, the
abstaining body tie, [only] this It is the bond of true attachment [
SN.45.175 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.175>]. Greed
for one's own opinion is the bond of covetousness, anger and
dissatisfaction over what others say is the bond of malice, attachment
to one's own precepts or prohibitions Or precepts and prohibitions are
the body binding of precepts and prohibitions, and the body binding of
holding on to one's own view is [only] this is the body binding of true
grasping. "After giving up", after giving up on the binding, it is After
renunciation, or on the tie, on the tie, on the tie, on the bondage, on
the enlargement of the tie, on the entangled, on the attached, on the
fixed, on the obstructed On the binding, after he shakes (?) after he is
set aside, such as sedan chairs, or carriages, or wagons, or chariots
that should be transported [people, things] after they are released
(removed) they are placed, destroyed, In the same way, after giving up
on the tie, after the renunciation, or on the tie, on the tie, on the
tie, on the tie, on the enlargement of the tie, on the entangled, on the
attached, On the fixed, on the obstructed, on the binding, he is shaken
and left behind. "Muni", Munais called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the
middle) After transcending the dyeing net, he is Muni. "Here": belonging
to this view... (abbreviated in the middle) in this person's world." For
Muni in the world after he left his ties.

"In the debate that has arisen is not a group member": "In the
debate that has arisen, has arisen, has been born, has arisen, has
arisen, in the debate that has arisen, what should not be done, and what
is hatred should not be done Among the practitioners, those who are
terrifying who should not be walking, and those who are delusional who
should not be walking, those who do not follow desire should not be
walking, those who are not angry should not be walking, those who are
not terrifying should not be walking, Those who are delusional should
not go where they are, not because of greed, not because of anger, not
because of ignorance, not because of slowness, not because of seeing,
not because of ignorance, and not because of doubt. , do not go away
because of the underlying tendencies of defilements, not legally driven,
guided, carried, conquered by discord." For not being a group member in
the debate that has arisen.

"The quiet one is quiet among the unquiet": "The "quiet", "The quiet
one of greed is the quiet one, the quiet one of hatred is the quiet one,
the quiet one of delusion is the quiet one... (Abbreviated in the
middle), all unwholesome and artificial states have been quieted, calmed
down, calmed down, extinguished, cooled down, gone, the rested state is
quiet, still, calm, The one who cools, the one who ceases." For the one
who is still. "In the not-quiet", in the not-quiet, in the not-quiet, in
the not-quiet, in the not-cool, in the in-quiet. ' for the quiet among
the unquiet. "He is peaceful." An arahant possesses six factors of
peace: after seeing the form with the eyes, he is neither happy nor sad
but abiding in peace, mindful and wise; after hearing the sound with the
ear... (abbreviated in the middle) When he is waiting to die: he is the
conditioned one (the silent one). "For the silent he is calm among the
unquiet.

"Those who don't pick up are picked up by others": "Others hold,
hold, and cling to because of craving, because of seeing, and the
Arahant looks on, not holding, not grasping, and not clinging." For
those who do not take up while others pick up.

Because of that, the World-Honored One said:

"After the Muni has renounced the ties here in the world, in the
disputes that have arisen, he is not a member of the group,

　the quiet one is calm among the non-quiet, the non-lifter and the
others Pick it up."

148. Throw away previous troublesAfterwards, he does not do anything
new. He is neither a person who achieves desire nor a clingingist.

　He is a wise person who has been freed from evil views, and he is
neither contaminated nor rebuked in the world.

"Don't do new things after abandoning the previous defilements":
""The former defilements are called the past forms, feelings, thoughts
and actions. Regarding the past defilements, all those defilements that
can cause defilements are abandoned, abandoned, forever abandoned, After
abandoning, after driving away, after finishing, making it
non-existent.” To abandon the previous afflictions. “Don’t do new”, the
new one is called the present form, feeling, thought, action, and
consciousness. Actions are not created by desire, not created by love,
not created by greed; those who do not cause them to be born, those who
are not produced, those who are not created, those who are not created."
Do not do new things after abandoning the previous afflictions. .

"A person who is not attainment of desire is not an obsessionalist":
"'He should not go where he does not go to desire, he should not go
where he does not go into aversion, he should not go where he is not
delusional, and he should not go where he does not go into terror. Don't
go because of greed, don't go because of hatred, don't go because of
ignorance, don't go because of slowness, don't go because of seeing,
don't go because of ignorance, don't go because of doubt, don't go
because of vexation potential , not being driven, guided, carried,
{not?} conquered by discord and lawfulness.” Those who are not those who
desire to reach. “Neither are clingingists”, not “the world is eternal,
this is the real thing, and everything else is emptiness.” The world is
very permanent... (abbreviated in the middle) is not "the Tathagata
neither exists nor does not exist after death, this is the real thing,
and everything else is empty." Nor is it an obsessionalist.

"He is a wise man who has been freed from evil views": "To him, the
sixty-two evil views have been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stoked,
unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom. The view is freed, the
bondage is freed, and he lives with a mind free from limitations. "The
wise", the wise are the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the
wise, the wise." For him A wise man who has freed himself from evil.

"Being free from contamination in the world and not blaming
yourself": ""attachment", "there are two kinds of clinging: the clinging
of [due to] craving and the clinging of [due to] seeing... (abridged)
this is the clinging of craving Clinging... (Abbreviated in the middle)
This is the clinging to seeing. For him, the clinging to craving has
been abandoned, the clinging to seeing has been abandoned, and that
clinging to craving has been abandoned. The state, the state in which
the clinging of seeing has been cut off, is in The world of sufferingis
not contaminated, the world of human beings is not contaminated, the
world of gods is not contaminated, the world of khandhas is not
contaminated, the world of world is not contaminated, the world of
places is not contaminated, not strongly contaminated, not closely
contaminated (non-polluting), no longer Contamination, no strong
contamination, no close contamination. Released, departed, liberated,
freed from bondage, he abides with a mind free from limitations. ' to be
untainted in the world.

"Do not rebuke oneself", rebuke oneself for two reasons: what has
been done and what has not been done. How did he rebuke himself for what
was done and what was not done? "I do bad deeds in my body, but I don't
do good deeds in my body. ' He rebuked himself; 'The words and deeds
made by me... (Abbreviated in the middle) The intentions and deeds made
by me... The killings made by me... The wrong views made by me, the
right views I did not make. ' He rebuked himself, and he rebuked himself
for what was done and what was not done.

Or, "I am not a full branch on the ring. ' he rebuked himself, 'I am
not the gatekeeper on the roots. 』……『I am not a person who knows the
right amount of food. '... 'I am not a sobriety specialist. '... 'I am
not one who is mindful and wise. '... 'The four mindfulness-absences
have not been practised by me. '... 'The four righteous diligences have
not been practiced by me. '... 'The four divine feet have not been
practiced by me. '...'The five faculties have not been cultivated by me.
'...'The five powers have not been practiced by me. '...'The seven
factors of enlightenment have not been practised by me. '...'The Noble
Eightfold Path has not been practised by me. '... 'Suffering is not
known to me. 』…… 『The set has not been discarded by me. '... 'The Tao
has not been practised by me. '... 'Destruction has not been witnessed
by me. ' He rebukes himself, this is what has been done and what has not
been done. He rebukes himself, this is how he rebukes himself. Those who
do not author, do not cause, produce, produce, and produce do not rebuke
themselves. "In order not to be stained in the world and not to rebuke
oneself.

Because of that, the Blessed One said,

"Abandoning the defilements of the past does not make new ones. He
is neither a person who attains desire nor a clingingist.

　He is a wise man who has been freed from evil views, and who does
not contaminate himself in the world and does not condemn himself."

149. He The one who leaves the army in all dharmas: whatever is seen
or heard,

　That Muni has been unburdened and liberated, the one who does not
build, who does not rest, who does not seek. [Like this, the Blessed One
(saying)]

"He is in all ways the one who leaves the army: whatever is seen or
heard": "The army is called the army of demons, and acts evil in deeds;
Evil deeds demon army; greed... hatred... ignorance... anger...
resentment... hideous evil... domineering... envy... stingy... deceit...
cunning... stubborn... passion... slow... extreme Slowness... shyness...
lethargy... all pollution... all evil deeds... all afflictions... all
scorching heat... all heat and troubles... all unwholesome things are
created as a demon army.

This is said by the Blessed One: [Sn.3.2 , 438-441 verse]

"Desire is your first army, and unhappiness is called the second,

...

　(Midden)

　those who have no courage do not defeat him, but after victory
they will be happy."
His pollution is conquered, defeated, destroyed, disintegrated, and
turned away by the Four Noble Ways, and that is called the one who
leaves the legion. He is the one who leaves the legion in what he sees;
the one who leaves the legion in what he sees; ." Because he is the one
who leaves the army in all things: whatever he sees or hears.

"The burden of that Muni has been removed and liberated":
"'burdens', there are three kinds of burdens: the burden of khandha, the
burden of pollution, and the burden of fabrication. What is the burden
of khandha? , Consciousness, this is the burden of the khandha. What is
the burden of pollution? Greed, hatred, delusion... (Abbreviated in the
middle) All unwholesome deeds are the burden of pollution. What is the
burden of artificiality? , this is the burden of fabrication. As the
burden of the aggregates and the burden of pollution and the burden of
fabrication are discarded, the root has been cut off, [like] a palm tree
whoseroot has been cut off , becoming non-existent , something that will
not be born in the future, which is called burden unloaded, burden
dropped, burden dropped, burden dropped completely, burden dropped,
burden ceased.

"Muni", Muna is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding, simple choice, investigation, method selection,
identification, discrimination, close observation, wise wisdom
(erudition), skill, intelligence, contemplation, deep contemplation,
examination , vast (comprehensive), wisdom, wise wisdom, vipassana,
right knowledge, thorn stick, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, wisdom
sword, wisdom hall, wisdom light, wisdom light, wisdom light, wisdom
treasure, no delusion, choice Fa, right view, possess that wisdom to be
Muni, to reach Muna.

There are three kinds of muni actions (perfect virtues): body muni
actions, speech muni actions, and mind muni actions. What is the body
muni line? The renunciation of the three evil deeds of the body is the
practice of the body muni; the three kinds of good deeds of the body are
the practice of the body muni; the wisdom in the object of the body is
the practice of the body muni; the omniscience of the body is the
practice of the body muni; the practice with omniscience The Tao of the
body is the practice of the body muni; the renunciation of the desire
and greed of the body is the practice of the body muni; the fourth jhāna
of the cessation of the body practice [breathing and breathing] is the
practice of the body muni, and this is the practice of the body muni.

What is Yumuni Line? The renunciation of the four evil deeds of
speech is the deed of speech muni; the four kinds of good deeds of
speech are deeds of speech muni; the wisdom in the object of speech is
deed of speech muni; the omniscience of speech is deed of speech muni;
The way to go together is the practice of Yumuni; the abandonment of
desire and greed for speech is the practice of Yumuni; the second jhana
of the cessation of the practice of speech is the practice of Yumuni,
this is the practice of Yumuni .

What is Yimuni Line? The renunciation of the three kinds of
intentional and evil deeds is the intentional action; the three kinds of
good intentions are the intentional muni action; the wisdom in the
mental object is the intentional muni action; the omniscience of the
mind is the intentional muni action; The Tao is mind-muni behavior; the
renunciation of lust and greed about the mind is mind-muni behavior; the
cessation of mind-forms is the mind-muni behavior.

"The body Muni, the speech Muni, and the mind Muni have no
omissions, and the

　Muni is the one who has complete conduct. They say that he is the
one who abandons everything.

　Body Muni, Speech Muni, and Mind Muni are free from afflictions.

　Muni is a Muni who has complete conduct. They say that he is one
who has been purged of evil. [ It.67
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=67>]'

The six kinds of muni have these three kinds of muni practices: "the
muni at home, muni without house, muni with study, muni without study,
pratyeka muni, muni [in] muni. 』Which are the Munis at home? Those lay
people who have seen the footprints and have understood the teachings
are lay munis. Which are homeless munis? Those monks who have seen the
footprints and have understood the teachings, these are lay munis. The
seven types of Munis with learning are Munis with learning, Arahants are
Munis without learning, pratyekabuddhas are Munis with Pakkazee, and
Munis are called Tathagatas, Arhats, and Universally Enlightened Ones.

"Not with Muna (silence) as the Muni, the ignorant and ignorant of

　all shapes and forms, after lifting the scales, they will become
wise and wise after taking the top one.

　Avoid all evils, the Muni becomes a Muni because of that, and

　anyone who understands the inner and outer aggregates in the world
is called a Muni because of that.

　After knowing the unwholesome and good Dharma, both inside and
outside of the world, after

　being offered (respected) by gods and people, after transcending
the net, he is a Muni. "

Freed", Muni's mind has been freed from greed, liberated, and good;
the mind has been freed from hatred... The mind has been freed from
delusion, freed, and good... liberation, good liberation. "The burden
for that Muni has been unloaded and freed.

"It is the one who does not construct, the one who does not rest,
and the one who does not desire [like this, the Blessed One (saying)]":
"'Construction', there are two kinds of construction: the construction
of [cause] craving and the construction of [cause] view...( This is the
construction of craving... (middle abbreviation) This is the
construction of seeing. ""For him the construction of craving has been
abandoned, the construction of seeing has been abandoned, and the
construction of craving has been The state of renunciation, the state of
the renunciation of the construction of view, the construction of
craving or the construction of view he does not construct, does not
cause, does not produce, does not cause, does not cause.” Not a builder.
"Those who do not rest", all ignorant ordinary people are infected with
them, good ordinary people, including the seven kinds of learning, they
are far away from, abstained from, and shunned for what they have not
attained, what they have not attained, and what they have not witnessed.
An arahant has been separated, abstained, abstained, renounced,
departed, liberated, freed from fetters, and he dwells with a mind free
from limitations. ' for the unconstructed, the restless. "Those who do
not want", desire is called craving, which is greed, greed...
(Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of greed is unwholesome.
Whoever for him this desire, craving, is abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, quenched, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is
called an undesired one.

"World Honored One", a synonym for respect. In addition, "those who
have destroyed greed" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed
hatred" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed ignorance" are
the Blessed Ones; The thorns are the Blessed One; the one who has
destroyed the pollution is the Blessed One; the one who summarizes,
analyzes, and distinguishes the magic weapon is the Blessed One; "Those
who have practised wisdom" are the World Honored One; or "The World
Honored One is a forest, a barren forest, or a place to live in a remote
area (a place to sit): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people,
living alone, suitable for sitting alone. "The World Honored One" is the
World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is the one who is involved
in clothing, food, shelter, the patient's needs, and medical
necessities"; The one who has increased the wisdom of the world is the
World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is the one who is involved
in the four kinds of jhana, the four immeasurables, and the four
immaterial forms." "The World-Honored One" is the World-Honored One; or
"The World-Honored One is the one who cultivates the ten thoughts,
attains the ten bases of thought, breathes in and out of breath, and
impurity" is the World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is the
four mindfulness, four One who is a partaker of the righteous diligence,
the four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
factors of enlightenment, and the eight-fold Noble Path” is the
World-Honored One; The one who has a share in it” is the World-Honored
One. "World Honored One", this name was not given (made) by a mother;
not by a father; not by a brother; not by a sister; not by a friend; not
by a relative; not by a recluse or a brahmin This is the ultimate
liberation of the Buddha and the World-Honored One: Anli (pseudonym),
who is under the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition of all
knowledge and wisdom and testimony, is the World-Honored One. "To be one
who does not build, who does not rest, who does not desire [like this,
the Blessed One (saying)].

Because of that, the Blessed One said:

"He is the one who has left the army in all dharmas: whatever he
sees or hears,

　that Muni has been unburdened and liberated, the one who does not
build, who does not rest, who does not wish. [Like this Bhagavan (saying)]"

Instructions for configuring the Great Sutra XIII [Completed].

Notes:
　1. Don't argue: The only result of argument is victory (increasing
grievances) and defeat (restlessness).
　2. Precepts and prohibitions / whether there is any sin or not should
be abandoned (the law should be abandoned).
　3. Those who do asceticism/aversion/progress/desire/desire are still
in various reincarnations.
　4. What can be done by seeing, if there is no polluting abandonment?
　5. The liberators are not practitioners of wrong views nor relatives
of wisdom (concentration wisdom/supernatural wisdom).
　12/13/2020 11:35
