Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
14. Explanation of Sui Jing
　　Second , the explanation of Sui Jing will say:
　　150. Sun people! I ask you, stay away from the realm of silence,
Great Immortal!
　　　How does one see that the latter bhikkhu has reached nirvana and
become one without any attachment in the world?
　　"Sun tribe! I ask you": "I ask", there are three kinds of inquiries:
the inquiry of the explanation of the unseen, the inquiry of the
confluence of the seen, and the inquiry of the severing of doubts. What
is an unseen clarification query? Originally unknown, unseen,
unmeasured, unjudged, unclear, unclear, for his wisdom, seeing,
measuring, judging [, clear], understanding, he asks questions, which is
An inquiry for an explanation not seen. What is the query of the
confluence of what is seen? Originally known, seen, measured, judged,
clear, and understood, he asks questions for the purpose of joining in
with other wise men. This is a question of what is seen. What is the
inquiry of the severing of doubts? Originally the one who leaps into
doubt, one who leaps into doubt, who arises in doubt: "Is that so? Isn't
that? What is it? How is it?" He asks the question for the purpose of
severing doubt. It is an inquiry of the severing of doubts. These are
three kinds of inquiries.
　　The next three kinds of inquiries: human inquiry, non-human inquiry,
and humanized inquiry. What is a human inquiry? After they went to see
the Buddha and the World-Honored One, they asked questions: the monks
asked, the monks asked, the Upasaka asked, the kings asked, the
Kshatriyas asked, the Brahmins asked, the Vaishas asked, The heads of
the drams asked, the lay people asked, and the monks asked. This is a
human question. What is an inhuman inquiry? After the non-humans went to
see the Buddha and the World-Honored One, they asked questions: the
dragons asked, the golden-winged birds asked, the yaksha asked, the
asuras asked, the Gandavas asked, the great kings asked the gods, the
Indras asked, and the Brahma asked , the gods asked, this is an inhuman
question. What is a human inquiry? All limbs and limbs are born of the
World Honored One's creative mind, without any lack of roots. The person
who transformed the person went to see the Buddha and the World Honored
One asked a question, and the World Honored One answered him. This is
the question of the transforming person. These are three kinds of
inquiries.
　　The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries for self-interest,
inquiries for the interests of others, and inquiries for the interests
of both. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of the present
interests, inquiries of the interests of the afterlife, and inquiries of
the highest interests. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of
the interests of no fault, inquiries of the interests of innocence, and
inquiries of the interests of clarity. The next three kinds of
inquiries: [about] past inquiries, future inquiries, and present
inquiries. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] inquiries within
oneself, inquiries outside oneself, and inquiries inside and outside
oneself. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] good inquiries, bad
inquiries, and unremembered inquiries. The next three kinds of
inquiries: the inquiry [about] the aggregate, the inquiry of the realm,
and the inquiry of the place. The next three kinds of inquiries: the
inquiry [about] mindfulness, the inquiry of the righteousness, and the
inquiry of the divine feet. The next three kinds of inquiries are: the
inquiry [about] the root, the inquiry of the force, and the inquiry of
the enlightenment factor. The next three kinds of inquiry: the inquiry
of the Tao, the inquiry of the fruit, and the inquiry of Nirvana.
　　"[Sun Clan!] I ask you": "'I ask you; I beg you; I ask you; You make
me clear; please speak for me.' Ask you for me. 'Sun Clan', Sun (Ādicco
) is called the sun (sūriyo), the sun's surname is Gautama, the World
Honored One is also surnamed Gautama, the World Honored One is a
relative of the sun surname, a relative of the sun surname, so the
Buddha is a sun clan." For the sun clan! I ask you.
　　"Remote and stillness, Daxian": "'Remote', there are three kinds of
separation: physical separation, mental separation, and dependent
separation. What is physical separation? Here, monks are close to the
abodes where they live alone: ​​forests, trees, mountains, and caves , a
cave, a cemetery, a forest, an open field, a haystack, living away from
the body [living away from the body - Ni.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni2.htm>, 7 verses], he walks alone,
stands alone, sits alone, lies alone, enters the village alone for alms
, returning alone, sitting alone in a quiet place, walking alone,
walking alone, staying, moving, turning up, guarding, making existence,
making existence, this is the separation of the body.
　　What is Heart Away? Those who have entered the first jhāna have
their minds far away from all obstacles, those who have entered the
second jhāna have their hearts freed from all searchers, those who have
entered the third jhāna have their hearts separated from joy, and those
who have entered the fourth jhāna have their hearts separated from
pleasure and suffering. Far away, the mind of those who entered the
boundless space has been separated from the thoughts of form, opposite
thoughts, and various thoughts; the mind of those who entered the
boundless place of consciousness has been separated from the boundless
place of consciousness; Far away, the mind of those who have entered
into a place of non-thinking and non-non-ideal thinking has gone away
from the place of nothingness, the mind of the Sudakaview , doubt,
precepts, seeing the latent tendency of afflictions, the latent
tendencyof doubtful afflictions, and the same. The pollution of
existence is far away, and the mind of the one who comes has been
separated from the gross attachment of lust, greed, and aversion, from
the potential tendency of gross desire, greed, and defilement, and the
potential tendency of the defilement of aversion, as well as the
pollution that coexists with it. The residual attachments of lust and
greed, the attachments of aversion, from the remaining potential
tendencies of lust, greed and defilements, the potential tendencies of
aversion and defilements, and the contamination that coexist with them,
the mind of an arahant has been freed from lust for lust, greed for
immateriality, arrogance, apathy, ignorance, and ignorance . The latent
tendency of afflictions, the latent tendencyof greed afflictions, the
latent tendencyof ignorance afflictions, and the contamination that
coexists with them are alienated from the outside and everything. This
is mind renunciation.
　　What is clinging to distance? Dependence is called defilements and
aggregates and fabrications; Dependence is called immortality, nirvana,
which is the cessation of all actions, the cessation of all attachments,
the cessation of craving, greed, cessation, nirvana , which is dependent
on staying away. The separation of the body belongs to the continuous
separation of the body and the desire to be free from the desires; the
separation of the mind belongs to the purity of the mind and the highest
purity; "Silence" refers to a state of tranquility and a state of
tranquility, which is immortality, nirvana, the cessation of all
actions, the cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the
cessation of greed, cessation, and nirvana. This is said by the Blessed
One: "This is the state of tranquility, this is the state of sublime,
that is, the cessation of all actions, the cessation of all attachments,
the cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, the cessation of
nirvana. [ SN.48.50
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=48.50>]' takes another
sign: all dharmas lead to the attainment of silence, the touch of
silence, the witness of silence, just as these four mindfulness, four
right effort, four spiritual feet, five faculties, five powers, The
Seven Factors of Enlightenment, the Eightfold Path, these are called the
state of tranquility, the state of refuge, the state of refuge, the
state of refuge, the state of fearlessness, the state of immortality,
the state of immortality, and the state of nirvana.
　　"The Great Immortal", the Great Immortal is the World Honored One,
and the "seekers, pursuers, and seekers of the Great Precepts" are the
Great Immortals. The Great Conditioning Aggregate... (Middle
Abbreviation) Great Wisdom Aggregate... Great Liberation Aggregate...
"The seeker, seeker, and seeker of the Great Liberation Wisdom and
Viewing Aggregate" is the great immortal; ...the pulling out of the
thorn arrows of the great craving...the unraveling of the accumulation
of great views...the putting away of the great slow flag (Thailand
version)...the quelling of the great pretentiousness...the overcoming of
the great storm...the letting down of the great burden... ...the
cessation of the cycle of great samsara...the cessation of the great
heat and vexation...the cessation of the great scorching heat...the
"seekers, seekers, and seekers who raise the banner of the great Dharma"
are great immortals; great mindfulness...all The Great Diligence... The
Great Divine Foot... The Great Roots... The Great Power... The Great
Enlightenment Factor... The Great Eightfold Path... "The Great Supreme
Benefit of Immortality, the Seeker of Nirvana, the Seeker, the Seeker"
is Great Immortal; "Sought, pursued, and sought after by beings of great
power: Where is the Buddha?" Where is the Blessed One? Where is the god
of gods? Where is the bull king among men? ' is Daxian. "For the realm
of distance and silence, Daxian!
　　"How to see a bhikkhu to reach Nirvana": "How to see, see, measure,
judge, distinguish, and understand to extinguish one's greed (to attain
Nibbana), to extinguish one's hatred, and to extinguish one's delusion
Extinguishing, Anger... (Abbreviated in the middle) Resentment... Hiding
evil... Domineering... Jealousy... Miserliness... Fake... Cunning...
Stubborn... Passion... Slow... Extremely slow... Sorrow... Lazy ...all
pollution...all evil deeds...all afflictions...all scorching heat...all
vexations...all unwholesome deeds to quench it, pacify it, quiet it,
calm it down, pacify it. "Bhikkhu", a monk who is good or ordinary, or a
monk who has learned." Why did he see that the latter monk reached Nirvana.
　　"Becoming one without any clinging in the world": "From the four
kinds of clinging to one who does not cling, one who does not hold, one
who does not cling, one who does not cling to. 'In the world', in the
world of suffering, in the world of human beings , the world of devas,
the world of khandhas, the world of worlds, the world of beings. 'Any',
anything like form, feeling, thought, formation, consciousness." To
become one without any clinging in the world.
　　Because of that, the transfigurationsaid:
　　"People of the Sun! I ask you, the realm of separation and silence,
great immortal!
　　　How do you see the latter bhikkhus reach Nirvana, without any
attachment in the world?"
　　151. [Like this, the Blessed One (saying) :] The root of the
delusionalpart: after consideration should stop all 'I am',
　　　any craving in oneself, for those taming should always be learned
with mindfulness.
　　"[Like this, the Blessed One (said):] The root of the false part:
after considering all 'I am' should be stopped": "The false part is the
false part: the craving for the false part, the seeing the false part.
What is the craving for the false part Part of the root? Ignorance is
the root; unreasonable meaning is the root; I am slowTo be the root; not
to be ashamed to be the root; not to be ashamed to be the root; What is
the root of seeing the false part? Ignorance is the root; unreasonable
thinking is the root; the slowness of what I am is the root; the root of
no shame is the root; the root of not being ashamed is the root;
　　"World Honored One", a synonym for respect. In addition, "those who
have destroyed greed" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed
hatred" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed ignorance" are
the Blessed Ones; The thorns are the Blessed One; the one who has
destroyed the pollution is the Blessed One; the one who summarizes,
analyzes, and distinguishes the magic weapon is the Blessed One; "Those
who have practised wisdom" are the World Honored One; or "The World
Honored One is a forest, a barren forest, or a place to live in a remote
area (a place to sit): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people,
living alone, suitable for sitting alone. "The World Honored One" is the
World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is the one who is involved
in clothing, food, shelter, the patient's needs, and medical
necessities"; The one who has increased the wisdom of the world is the
World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is the one who is involved
in the four kinds of jhana, the four immeasurables, and the four
immaterial forms." "The World-Honored One" is the World-Honored One; or
"The World-Honored One is the one who cultivates the ten thoughts,
attains the ten bases of thought, breathes in and out of breath, and
impurity" is the World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is the
four mindfulness, four One who is a partaker of the righteous diligence,
the four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
factors of enlightenment, and the eight-fold Noble Path” is the
World-Honored One; The one who has a share in it” is the World-Honored
One. "World Honored One", this name was not given (made) by a mother;
not by a father; not by a brother; not by a sister; not by a friend; not
by a relative; not by a recluse or a brahmin This is the ultimate
liberation of the Buddha and the World-Honored One: Anli (pseudonym),
who is under the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition of all
knowledge and wisdom and testimony, is the World-Honored One. ' is the
root of the illusory part.
　　"After deliberation, all 'I am' should be stopped": "After
deliberation, it is called wisdom, which is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) non-delusion, choice of
Dharma, right view. 'I am', the 'I am' of form ” There is the latent
tendency of defilement of “I am” of slowness, “I am” of will, about
feeling…about thinking…about action…about “I am” of consciousness, there
is “I am” of slowness, and “I am” of will. The underlying tendency of
the afflictions of 'I AM'." "[Like this, the Blessed One (said):] The
root of the delusional part: After consideration, all 'I AM' should be
stopped": "After consideration, it should be prevented, stopped,
extinguished, subdued, extinguished No, stop the root of all vain parts
and the slowness of I AM." For [Like this, the Blessed One (said):] The
root of vain parts: After consideration, all "I AM" should be stopped.
　　"Anything that is craving in itself": "Anything that is, all
completely, every aspect completely, nothing leftover, whole, this is
the word of craving for 'everything.' Craving The craving for the
color... (the middle abbreviated) the craving of the Dharma. "Within
oneself", "Waiting for that craving within oneself (Thailand version)."
It is within oneself. Or, "What is within oneself is called mind:
ordinary mind." , mind, mind, heart (visceral), white (pervasive), mind,
mind base, mind root, consciousness, consciousness aggregate,
corresponding to that realm of consciousness, the mind is accompanied by
that craving, innate, mixed with each other , corresponding, same birth,
same cessation, same base, same object' is also within oneself." is any
craving within oneself.
　　"For the sake of those, one should always learn with mindfulness":
"always," always; Arising without gaps; continuously accompanying and
making it accessible; before noon, noon, early night, mid-night, late
night; in the dark moon, bright moon, rainy season, winter, summer; in
youth, middle age, old age. The "ground of mindfulness" is mindful in
four ways: mindful when practising mindfulness on the body, mindfulness
of the body, mindfulness...in the mind...and mindfulness when practising
on the dharmas When contemplating the Dharma, it is mindful. The next
one is mindful in four ways: mindful in avoiding non-thought, mindful in
the state where the dharma that should be done with mindfulness is done,
mindful in the state where the dharma obstructed by mindfulness is
destroyed, The state of mindfulness (phase) [the method of - Ni.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>, 3rd verse] is not forgetting
the state of mindfulness.
　　The next one is from the four ways of being mindful: the state of
being mindful is mindful, the state of being mindful is mindful, the
state of being proficient in mindfulness is mindful, and the state of
being mindful is not falling. of.
　　The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in a state of
mindfulness, mindful in a state of stillness, mindful in a state of
tranquility, mindful in a state of tranquility; Mindfulness of Buddha,
mindfulness of Dharma, mindfulness of Sangha, mindfulness of precepts,
mindfulness of charity, mindfulness of heaven Mindful; mindful of
in-breathing, mindful of death, mindful of body-to-body mindfulness,
mindful of stillness, mindfulness; mindfulness, mindfulness,
remembrance, mindfulness The state of mindfulness, the state of
mindfulness, the state of non-floating, the state of not forgetting, the
root of mindfulness, the power of mindfulness, mindfulness, the
enlightenment factor of mindfulness, and the path without fork in the
roadare called mindfulness. To have, to have, to reach, to reach, to
have, to have, to have this thought, he is called thoughtful.
　　"Learning", there are three kinds of learning: the learning of
increasing morality, the learning of increasing mind, and the learning
of increasing wisdom. What is an increase in precepts? Here, a bhikkhu
is a precept-holder, who lives underthe protection of the self-control
of Paratimcha, who is full of right conduct and behavior, who sees
terrible things in all the petty sins, who learns after receiving and
upholding them in various learnings. The small precepts and the big
precepts are the basis of precepts, the [self] restraint of behavior,
the entrance of self-control, the first of the good dharma to reach
(attainment), and the good dharma to reach (achieve), which is to
increase the learning of precepts .
　　What is Zeng Shang Xin Xue? Here, the bhikkhu, after leaving desire,
after leaving unwholesome dharmas, enters and abides inthe first jhāna
with search and service, from which he gives birth to joy and bliss, and
from the pacification of search and service ,The purity within oneself,
the single -mindedness ofthe mind, after entering into the second jhāna
of non-seeking and non-serving, the second jhāna, abiding in
tranquility, mindfulness and comprehension, feeling bliss with the body,
After entering, he dwells in the third jhāna of this nobledisciple who
declares: "He is a peaceful, mindful, abiding one who dwells in
pleasure." The renunciation of pleasure and the renunciation of
suffering, the cessation of all previous joys and sorrows, enter into
the third jhāna. Afterwards, to abide in the fourth jhāna, which is
neither suffering nor pleasure, but which is peaceful and pure in mind,
this is the study of the mind.
　　What is Zeng Shang Hui Xue? Here, the bhikkhu is the wise one,
possessing the wisdom that leadsto arising and passing away , the holy,
the insight, that leadsto the complete cessation of suffering, and he
knows as it really is, "This is suffering." He knows as it really is,
"This is the cause of suffering." It is the cessation of suffering."
Knowing as it is, "This is the path leading to the path of suffering."
Knowing as it is: "These are the taints." Knowing as it is: "This is the
collection of the taints." Knowing as it is: "This is the cessation of
the taints." This is the path leading to the leakage." This is Zeng
Shang Hui Xue.
　　"For those taming, he should always learn with mindfulness": "For
those who crave for taming, elimination, abandonment, pacification,
cessation, and cessation, he should learn to increase the precepts, he
should also learn to increase the mind, and he should Learning to
increase wisdom. These three lessons should be learned when facing
(notice); when knowing, you should learn; when seeing, you should learn;
when you examine, you should learn; when your mind is established
(determination), you should learn; should learn when vigor is striving;
should learn when mindfulness arises; should learn when mind is
concentrated; should learn when understanding with wisdom; When
omniscient should be known, one should learn; when one should abandon
what should be discarded, one should learn; when one should practice
what should be practiced, one should learn; when one should testify as
evidence, one should learn, one should practice, one should practice
well, After being upheld, you should turn around." For the sake of
those, you should always learn with mindfulness.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"[Like this Blessed One (said):] the root of the vain part: after
consideration all 'I am' should be stopped,
　　　any craving in oneself should always be mindful for the taming of
those Learn.”
　　152. Anyone who can prove and know the Dharma, inside or outside of
himself,
　　　should not be resolute because of that, because that is not called
quiescence by the good.
　　"Anyone who can prove and know the Dharma is in himself": "Anyone
who has any virtue, he can know whether it is good or unremembered. What
is one's own merit (good quality)? It will be a monk from a noble
family, or It will be a monk from a wealthy family, or it will be a monk
from a wealthy family, or it will be "all the monks and monks are
well-known and famous", or it will be "in clothes, food, shelter, sick
people." Those who need the benefits of things and medical necessities”
may be scribes, lawyers (law-holders), preachers, forest dwellers,
beggars, or beggars Those who wear dung-sweeping robes may be those who
wear three robes, or those who beg for food, or those who do not eat
after eating, or those who often sit [not lying down], or those who live
everywhere, or those who do not eat. It may be the "obtainer of the
first jhāna", or it will be the "obtainer of the second jhāna", or it
will be the "obtainer of the third jhāna", or it will be the "obtainer
of the fourth jhāna", or it will be the "obtainer of the emptiness". The
one who waits for the limitless place, the one who waits for the
limitless consciousness...the one who waits for nothing...or may be "the
one who waits for the place of neither thought nor non-idea", this is
called one's own merit. Any of his own virtues, he can know, understand,
know, know with certainty, and penetrate.” For anyone who can prove and
know the Dharma, within himself. "Or external": "It will be those who
are close teachers, or the merit of the teacher (Ajali)." It is or
external.
　　"You shouldn't be resolute because of that": "You shouldn't be
resolute, stubborn, arrogant, arrogant, or arrogant because of your own
merits or the merits of others. You shouldn't be arrogant because of
that. Be stubborn like that, very stiff, with your head held high." You
shouldn't be resolute because of that.
　　"Because that which is not called by the good is cessation": "To the
good (Satānaṃ), to the good (santānaṃ), to the good (sappurisānaṃ), to
the Buddha, to the disciples of the Buddha, to the Prakkabuddha, 'that
is silence not spoken, not explained, not explained, not taught, not
told, not established, not revealed, not analyzed, not explained, not
explained.” Because that is not good It is said to be silence.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Anyone who is able to know the Dhamma, inside or outside himself,
　　　One should not be resolute because of that, because that is not
called cessation by the good.
　　153. He should not think that he is the winner, the inferior, or the
equal because of that,
being 　　　touched by more than one form, and he should not keep his
own classification.
　　"You shouldn't be considered a winner because of that": "You
shouldn't be born by birth, or by surname, or by good family, or by
beauty like a lotus flower, or by property, or by research
(acquisition), or by karma, or With skill, or with clarity (academic),
or with what has been heard, or with eloquence, or with something that
makes "I am the winner" extremely slow." It shouldn't be considered a
winner because of that.
　　"I am inferior or equal": "It should not be born by birth, or by
surname... (abbreviated in the middle) or by something that makes 'I am
inferior' humble. It should not be born by birth, or by surname, Either
with a good family, or with a beauty like a lotus flower, or with
property, or with research (acquisition), or with industry, or with
skill, or with knowledge (academic), or by hearing, or by eloquence, Or
by something that makes 'I am equal' slow." To be inferior or equal.
　　"To be touched by more than one form": "To be touched, tormented,
combined, possessed by all kinds of formations." To be touched by more
than one form.
　　"He should not keep a classification of himself": "He is called me.
He should not keep constructing, classifying, and discriminating about
me (himself)." Because he should not keep a classification of himself.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"He should not be considered superior, inferior, or equal because of
that,
　　　being touched by more than one form, and he should not maintain a
classification of himself."
　　154. There should be silence in oneself alone . , Bhikkhus should
not seek silence from others. For
　　　those who are still within themselves, where can they refuse what
they do not take?
　　"Only within oneself should be quiet": "Covetousness within oneself
should be appeased; hatred should be appeased; delusion should be
appeased; anger... (abbreviated) resentment... hide evil...
domineering... jealousy... stingy ... deceitful ... cunning ... stubborn
... passion ... slow ... very slow ... arrogance ... laziness ... all
pollution ... all evil deeds ... all troubles ... all scorching heat ...
all heat Annoyance . . . all unwholesome deeds should be quelled,
silenced, silenced, silenced, silenced.” Only within oneself should be
silenced.
　　"Bhikkhus should not seek quiescence from others": "From others, by
the impure path, by the deviant path, by the non-extrication path, by
mindfulness, by right effort, by the feet of gods Besides, except with
the faculties, with the powers, with the enlightenment factors, and with
the eight-fold noble path, one should not seek, seek, and search for
stillness, stillness, tranquility, cessation, cessation." Bhikkhus
should not seek silence from others.
　　"The one who is still in oneself": "The one who is quiet in oneself;
the one who is quiet in hatred; the one who is quiet in delusion...
(Abbreviated in the middle). ' is the one who is still within himself.
　　"Where does he who does not take it has the one who rejects it?":
"'No' is a negation. The 'taken' is my view, he does not have it; What
he holds, he does not, "rejected" is what should be released, he does
not. Whoever has his grasp, he should be released [; whoever should be
released, he has grasped] For him, it is the transcendence of grasping
and releasing. The Arahant has surpassed growth and retreat. He is the
one who has descended, the one who has practiced action... (Abbreviated
in the middle) samsara without his rebirth." Where is there a rejection
for what is not taken.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Only within oneself should be still, a bhikkhu should not seek
stillness from others.
　　　Those who are still within oneself, those who do not take will not
be rejected."
　　155. As in the midst of the sea, no waves are produced. it is stable,
　　　Those who stand still and do not disturb like this, monks will not
increase prosperity wherever they are.
　　"As in the midst of the sea, it is stable when no waves are
produced": "The ocean is forty thousand yojanas high and deep, the water
below forty thousand yojanas is swayed by fish and turtles, the water
above forty thousand yojanas is shaken by wind, and the middle is forty
thousand yojanas. Yojana water does not shake, does not shake strongly,
does not move, does not tremble, does not tremble (strong tremor), does
not tremble (strong tremor), is not passive, not stirred, not
fluctuated, not disturbed, not rotated, Be calmed, where no waves are
produced, it is the stable sea." Like this it is as in the middle of the
sea, where no waves are produced it is stable.
　　Or, "In the middle of the seven mountains there are colored peaches
and big peaches in the sea, where the water does not shake, does not
shake violently, does not move, does not tremble, does not tremble, does
not tremble, is not passive, not stirred, not moved, not moved.
Disturbed, not spun, calmed, where no waves are produced, it is a stable
sea." And so it is as in the middle of the sea, where no waves are
produced it is stable.
　　"Those who stand like this, those who don't disturb": "'Like this'
is a metaphorical arrangement. 'The one who stands (stable)', 'he does
not shake when he gets it; he does not shake when he doesn't get it;
[When there is] reputation he does not waver; he does not waver when he
has no reputation; he does not waver when he is praised; he does not
waver when he is rebuked; he does not waver when he is happy; he does
not waver when he is suffering He does not shake, does not shake
strongly, does not move, does not tremble, does not tremble, does not
tremble.” Such is the abiding one. The “undisturbed”, the disturbanceis
called craving, that is craving, craving (perfect craving). )...
(Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed.
Whoever disturbs him, craving is abandoned, cut off, cut off, calmed
down, stopped, cannot arise, and is burned by the fire of wisdom, he is
It is called the undisturbed one. The undisturbed one is the one who has
given up the disturbance. When he gets it, he does not shake; when he
does not get it, he does not shake; He does not move when he is
complimenting; he does not move when he praises; he does not move when
he rebukes; he does not move when he is happy; he does not move when he
is suffering, he does not shake, he does not move, he does not tremble,
Do not tremble, do not tremble very little.” This is the one who stands
still, the one who does not disturb.
　　"No matter where a bhikkhu is, he will not be prosperous":
""Increasing prosperity," there are seven prosperous: greed prospering,
hatred prospering, delusion prospering, slow prospering, vision
prospering, pollution prospering, karma prospering Sheng, he will not
do, will not cause it, will not cause it to produce, will not cause it
to arise, will not cause it to arise. "Wherever", no matter where, no
matter where, no matter where , inside or outside or inside." No matter
where the bhikkhus are, they will not be enriched.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"As in the midst of the sea, without waves being produced it is
stable, and
　　　those who stand still, who are not disturbed like this, will not
flourish wherever the monks are."
　　156. The discerning one recounts, The self-evidence method of
subduing in danger, respected
　　　teacher! Please narrate the path, the Palladium or even the Dharma.
　　"Telling of the discerning": "'Telling', 'Telling, explaining,
explaining, teaching, informing, establishing, uncovering, analyzing,
clarifying, explaining.' is a narrating (Thai version). The five eyes
are the clear eyes: the physical eye is the clear eye, the celestial eye
is also the clear eye, the wisdom eye is also the clear eye, the Buddha
eye is also the clear eye, and all eyes are also the clear eye.
　　How does the Blessed One use the naked eye as the discerning eye?
There are five colors in the eyes of the Blessed One: cyan, yellow, red,
black, and white. The eye hair of the Blessed One, where the eye hair
resides, is blue, very blue, upright, beautiful, like a linen flower
(Sri Lankan version), and the rest are yellow, very yellow, golden,
upright, Beautiful, equivalent to the sagebrush. The two eyes of the
Blessed One are red, very red, straight, beautiful, like a cochineal,
and in the middle they are black, very dark, not coarse, moist,
straight, beautiful, and wet Sapin's of Sapindus, the others are white,
extremely white, white, yellow-white, upright, beautiful, and equal to
Taibaixing. With the physical eyes of the Blessed One, who belonged to
the natural individual and was born of the previous good deeds, he sees
everything for a yojan day and night, even when there are four elements
of darkness: the sunset, the black side [moon] busa, the dense forest,
and the great evil. The black cloud of Nimbus (Thailand version)
appears. In this way, when the darkness of the four branches is present,
he also sees everything for a yojan day and night. No walls, or
shutters, or enclosures, or mountains, or forests, or groves were
obstacles to his vision of form and form. If a sesame seed is marked and
placed in a cart full of sesame seeds, he can select that sesame seed.
In this way, the natural eye of the Blessed One is pure and pure, and
the Blessed One uses the physical eye as the discerning eye.
　　How does the World-Honored One use the celestial eye as the
discerning eye? The World-Honored One sees, with a pure, celestial eye
that surpasses ordinary human beings, when sentient beings die and
rebirth, in inferior, wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate, and
unfortunate, he knows that all living beings circulate according to
their karma: "Respected teachers! Indeed, these beings have evil deeds
in the body, evil deeds in speech, and evil deeds in the mind. They are
those who rebuke the saints, those who have wrong views, and those who
hold wrong views. They disintegrate their bodies and have been reborn in
the world of misery, in the evil realms, Nether, hell, respected
teachers! Or, these beings have good deeds of body, good speech, and
good deeds of mind. They are those who do not rebuke the saints, those
who have right views, and those who hold right views. They have been
reborn,skyline. ' In this way, with a pure, celestial eye that
transcends ordinary people, when living beings die, when they are
reborn, whether they are inferior, wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate
or unfortunate, they know that all living beings circulate according to
their karma. When he wishes, the Blessed One can see one world, two
worlds, three worlds, four worlds, five worlds, and ten worlds. world, I
can see twenty world worlds, I can see thirty world worlds, I can see
forty world worlds, I can see fifty world worlds, I can see a hundred
world worlds, and I can see These thousand small worlds can also see
these two thousand middle worlds, and also these three thousand great
thousand worlds (Sri Lankan version) [ AN.3.81
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.81>]. Or if he wants
to, he can see. In this way, the World-Honored One's celestial eye is
pure and pure.
　　How does the Blessed One use the wise eye as the discerning eye? The
World-Honored One is the Great Wisdom, the Enlightened Wisdom, the Great
Wisdom, the Quick Wisdom, the Beneficial Wisdom, the Insightful Wisdom,
the Skilled One of the Kinds of Wisdom, the One Who Has Developed
Wisdom, the One Who Has Achieved the Unhindered Understanding, the One
Who Has Achieved the Four Fearless, One who has ten powers, one who is
like an ox, one who is like a lion, one who is wise, one who can afford
it, one who is infinitely wise, one who is brilliant, one who is famous,
one who is rich, one who is very rich, one who is rich, one who guides,
one who subdues , the one who comforts, the one who informs, the one who
makes it consider, the one who makes it see, the one who makes it clear,
that Blessed One is indeed the one who arises without the path, the one
who makes the unborn path, the proclaimer who doesn't proclaim the path
The one who knows the Tao, the one who knows the Tao, the one who knows
the Tao, the great virtue! Also, now the disciples live as followers of
the Tao, and later they will be those who possess it.
　　The Blessed One is indeed the knower, he knows, the seer, he sees;
the eye-born, the wisdom-born, the Dharma-born, the Brahma-born, the
interpreter, the preacher, the guide of justice , Immortal giver, Dharma
King, Tathagata, there is none that the World-Honored One does not know,
does not see, does not know, does not testify, and does not touch with
wisdom, the past, the future, and the present come to the Buddha with
all the signs of all dharmas in the past, the future, and the present.
In the realm of the Blessed One's wisdom door, any [dhamma] that is
called to be inferred can be known: one's own, or another's, or both, or
in the present life, or in the next, or both. The truth, or the deep
truth, or the hidden truth, or the secret truth, or the truth that
should be led to inference, or the truth that has been led to be
determined, or the truth of the faultless, or the truth of the
unsullied, or the truth of the clear truth, or the truth of the highest
interest Righteousness, everything revolves in the Buddha's wisdom.
　　All bodily karma follows the wisdom of the Buddha and the World
Honored One; all speech karma... all mental karma... Buddha and World
Honored Wisdom about the past is without obstacles; [Buddha, World
Honored] about the future... Wisdom about the present is without
obstacles , all that should be led to inference is the reach of wisdom;
all that is to be led to reason is what should be led to reason about,
and the end of what should be led to reason is wisdom; the end of wisdom
is what should be led to reason about, After transcendence should be
guided inferences, the wisdom does not turn; after transcendence wisdom
there is no way to be guided inferences. These dharmas are limited to
each other. For example, when two lids are completely touched, the lower
lid does not pass over the upper one. ; The upper lids do not pass over
the lower ones, and are limited to each other. [Similarly,] all that is
to be led to inference is that of wisdom; all that is to be of wisdom is
that to be led to infer, and the ultimate of that to be led to inference
is wisdom; the ultimate of wisdom is to be to be What guides inferences
is beyond the wisdom that should be guided in inferences; there is no
way beyond wisdom that should be guided in inferences. These dharmas are
limited to each other.
　　The wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One arises in all
dharmas, and all dharmas belong to the turning, hope, intention, and
arising minds of the Buddha and the World-Honored One. Knowing the
intentions of all sentient beings, knowing the underlying trends of
afflictions, knowing behaviors, knowing the winning solution
(aspiration), knowing about less dusty, more dusty; Those who teach,
those who are difficult to teach; all beings who are capable and
incapable, including the world of heaven, demons, and Brahmans;
including ascetic and brahmins, including the generations of gods and
humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom.
　　Just as any fish, turtles, and even boat-swallowing fishes revolve
in the ocean, similarly, the worlds including gods, demons, and
Brahmans, as well as the ascetic and brahmins, including the generations
of gods and humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom. Like any bird,
including the Garuda of the great descendants of Weina, it turns around
in the void field. In the same way, those who have the same wisdom as
Sariputra also revolve in the field of Buddha's wisdom. The wisdom of
the Buddha pervades and transcends the wisdom of heaven and man. All
those wise Kshatriyas, wise Brahmins, wise housekeepers, wise ascetics,
wise dissenters, shrewd breakers who want to do evil deeds in a wise
manner, they are ready The questions were later seen by the Tathagata,
and then they asked about the hidden and secret [Rhythm]. Those
questions were discussed and answered by the World Honored One with
reasons, but those who had just abandoned them became the [disciples] of
the World Honored One. 』Glory. The World-Honored One thus uses the wise
eye as the discerning eye.
　　How does the World Honored One regard the Buddha's eye as the
discerning eye? When the World-Honored One observes the world with the
eyes of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt; those with
sharp roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds and those
with bad deeds; those who are easy to teach and those that are difficult
to teach; some who live and see in other worlds. Sins and horrors, other
beings who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds. Just
like in the green lotus pond, red lotus pond, and white lotus pond, some
green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in water, grow in
water, depend on the water surface, and grow underwater; some green
lotus, red lotus, and white lotus grow in water and grow in water. In
the water, they stand at the same height as the surface of the water;
some green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in the water, grow
in the water, and rise above the water surface to stand without being
stained by the water. Similarly, when the World-Honored One observes the
world with the eyes of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt;
those with sharp roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds
and those with bad deeds; The sins and horrors of other worlds, others
who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds [ DN.14
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, 69 para.]. The World
Honored One knows: "This person is a greedy person, this person is an
aggressor, this person is an ignorant person, this person is a seeker,
this person is a believer, this person is a wise person. ' The Blessed
One explained the impurity to those who practice greed. The Blessed One
informs the practice of loving-kindness to those who are averse. The
World-Honored One settled the delusional person in recitation,
inquiring, listening to the Dharma at the right time, discussing the
Dharma at the right time, and living with the teacher. The World-Honored
One told those who were seeking to breathe in and out of breath. The
World-Honored One informs believers about the signs of self-confidence:
the good enlightenment of the Buddha, the good nature of the Dharma, the
good practice of the Sangha and their own precepts. The World-Honored
One told those who practiced Vipassana the signs of vipassana: the signs
of impermanence, the signs of ascetic practices, and the signs of non-self.
　　"As standing on the top of a rocky mountain, one can see all the
people,
　　　similarly, those who are wise and all-eyed climb up the tall
buildings made by the Dharma, and those
　　　who have been separated from sorrow look at those who have fallen
into sorrow and are conquered by birth and old age.
　　　Please get up! hero! The victor on the battlefield! The leader of
the caravan, the debt-free walk in the world, World Honored One
　　　! Please teach the law! There will be (will) those who know. [
DN.14 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, paragraph 70]"
The World-Honored One
　　thus regards the Buddha's eye as the discerning eye.
　　How does the Blessed One see all eyes as the discerning one? All
eyes are called the state wisdom of all knowing. The Blessed One has,
fully has, attained, fully attained, fully attained, fully attained,
possessing the state knowledge of all knowing.
　　"There is nothing unseen here (in this world) for him, and nothing
is known and cannot be known, and
　　　he witnesses that everything that exists should be led to
inference, that the Tathagata is the eye of all. [ Ps.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>, Paragraph 121]" The
　　Blessed One thus sees all eyes as the discerning eye. "Speaking for
the discerning.
　　"The self-evidence method of the control of danger": "The
"self-evidence method", "not from hearsay, not from hearsay, not from
tradition, not from the teachings of scriptures and Tibetans, not from
logical deduction, not by reasoning, not by theoretical contemplation,
It is not an opinion accepted after contemplation, but a Dharma that has
been personally realized and realized by oneself.” This is the Dharma of
self-evidence. “Trouble in distress”, “danger”, there are two types of
distress: obvious distress and hidden distress .What are the obvious
dangers? Lions, tigers, leopards, bears, squirrels, wolves, bisons,
elephants, snakes, scorpions, centipedes, or thieves, rogues who do evil
or prepare to do evil, eye, ear, nose, Tongue disease, body disease,
head disease, external ear disease, mouth disease, dental disease,
cough, asthma, external nose disease, fever, old age, abdominal disease,
coma, diarrhea, abdominal pain, cholera, leprosy, tumor, ringworm, lung
disease, Epilepsy, ringworm, scabies, rheumatism, scratches (a type of
leprosy), chapped skin, hemobiliary disease, diabetes, hemorrhoids,
rashes (boils and blisters), hemorrhoids (ulcers), diseases caused by
gallbladder, phlegm, etc. Diseases, diseases caused by wind, diseases
caused by the combination of [the three], diseases caused by seasonal
changes, diseases caused by improper posture, diseases caused by sudden
attacks, diseases caused by karma, cold, heat, hunger, mouth Thirst,
feces, urine, contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, snakes,
etc. These are called obvious dangers.
　　What are the hidden dangers? , slumber, regret, doubt, greed,
hatred, ignorance, anger, resentment, hidden evil, domineering, jealous,
stingy, deceitful, cunning, stubborn, passionate, slow, extremely slow,
arrogant , relaxation, all pollution, all evil deeds, all afflictions,
all scorching heat, all heat and afflictions, all unwholesome deeds,
these are called hidden dangers.
　　"Danger", what is the meaning of danger? peril; "leading to retreat"
is peril; "dwelling there" is peril. What is perilous to "conquer all"?
Those perils conquer, conquer, defeat, overwhelm, end, crush that
person, this is "conquer all" ' for danger.
　　How is "guided retreat" in danger? Those obstacles and failures that
lead to good Dharma, what kind of good Dharma? The right way, the
obedient way, the non-reversed way, the non-contradictory way (the
non-contradictory way), the way of the meaning, the way of the Dharma,
the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the gates on the roots,
the one who knows the right amount of food and drink , specializing in
sobriety, mindfulness and clear understanding, the diligent practice of
the four mindfulness, the four right diligence...the four spiritual
feet...the five faculties...the five powers...the seven enlightenment
factors...the eight noble paths, leading to these good dharmas Obstacles
and setbacks, this is "led to setbacks" as danger.
　　What does it mean to "dwell there" as danger? There, these evil and
unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal dependence, such as
burrowing animals lying in caves; aquatic animals lying in water; forest
animals lying in forests; arboreal animals lying in trees. Likewise,
there, these evil and unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal
dependence. This is the danger of "dwelling there".
　　This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.35.151
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.151>]: "Monks!
Bhikkhus who have apprentices and masters live in suffering and not
happy. Bhikkhus! And how does a monk with apprentices and masters live
in suffering without being happy? Bhikkhus! Here, after the bhikkhu sees
the form with his eyes, he develops the remembrance and intention of
those evil and unwholesome dharmas that follow the knot. "They dwell in
him; evil and unwholesome dharmas dwell, enter (occupy)." Hence, he is
called "having apprentices." "They conquered him; evil and unwholesome
dharmas conquered him." Therefore, he was called "a master."
　　Again, monks! After a bhikkhu hears sounds with his ears...
(abbreviated in the middle) after smelling smells with his nose...after
tasting tastes with his tongue...after touching his body with his
body...after knowing the Dharma with his consciousness, he will have the
remembrance of those evil and unwholesome things that follow and obey
the knot. with intent. "They dwell in him; evil and unwholesome dharmas
dwell, enter (occupy)." Hence, he is called "having apprentices." "They
conquered him; evil and unwholesome dharmas conquered him." Therefore,
he was called "a master." Bhikkhus! In this way, bhikkhus with
apprentices and masters live in suffering and not at ease. ' This is
also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　This is said by the Blessed One [ It.88
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=88>]: "Monks! There are
these three kinds of internal dirt, internal non-friends, internal
enemies, internal killers, internal enemies, which three? Bhikkhus!
Greed is internal filth, internal non-friend, internal enemy, internal
murderer, internal foe; monks! Angry... (slightly omitted) Bhikkhus!
Delusion is internal dirt, internal non-friend, internal enemy, internal
killer, internal hatred. Bhikkhus! These are the three kinds of internal
filth, internal non-friend, internal enemy, internal killer, internal
foe. "
　　Greed is the cause of unprofitability, greed is the one that shakes
the heart,
　　　from which terror arises, and people do not understand it.
　　　The greedy person does not know the benefit, the greedy person
does not see the Dharma,
　　　then he is a blind dark person: anyone who is greedy and can conquer.
　　　Hatred is the cause of no benefit, hatred is the one that shakes
the heart,
　　　from which terror arises, and people do not realize it.
　　　The angry person does not know the benefits, the angry person does
not see the Dharma,
　　　then he is a blind dark person: a person who can conquer all hatred.
　　　Delusion is the cause of no benefit, delusion is the one that
shakes the heart,
　　　from which terror arises, and people do not realize it.
　　　The foolish man does not know the benefits,
　　　the foolish man cannot see the Dharma, then he is the blind
darkness: the man who the mortal fools can conquer. '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.3.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=3.2>]: "Your Majesty!
When the three dharmas arise within a man, unfavorableness, suffering,
and unpleasantness arise, which three? King! When craving arises in a
man himself, unfavorableness, suffering, unpleasantness and pleasure
arise; great king! When hatred arises in a man himself... (slightly
omitted) Your Majesty! When delusion arises in a man himself,
unfavorableness, suffering, unpleasantness and happiness arise, great
king! When these three dharmas arise within the man himself,
unfavorable, suffering, and unpleasant abiding arises. "
　　A man of greed, hatred, ignorance, disgusting,
　　　hurts himself like many fruits [hurt] the heart of a tree." '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　This is said by the Blessed One: [ SN.10.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=10.3>]
　　"From here comes greed and hatred, from here arises unhappiness,
happiness, the hair on the body stands
　　　up, from here arises and seeks with the mind, like a little boy
putting a crow away. '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　"Troubleshooting in perils", subduing perils, letting go of perils,
cessation of perils, renunciation of perils, cessation of perils,
immortality, nirvana. ' is the self-evidence method of subduing in peril.
　　"Respected teacher! Please tell the path": "'Please tell me about
the path', "The right path (the right path), the path that follows, the
path that is not upside-down, the path that does not contradict, the
path that it means. , The Dharma follows the path of the Dharma, the
precepts are perfect, guards the gate on the faculties, knows the right
amount of food and drink, specializes in sobriety, mindfulness and clear
knowledge, four mindfulness, four right effort, four spiritual feet,
five faculties, five powers, The Seven Factors of Enlightenment, the
Eightfold Path, Nirvana, and the Path leading to Nirvana, please tell,
please explain, please teach, please inform, please establish, please
uncover, please analyze, please clarify, Please explain." In order to
ask you to tell the path. "Respected Master", the person who transforms
is called the World Honored One. Or, whoever explains, teaches, informs,
establishes, uncovers, interprets, clarifies, explains to you all that
should be practiced Excellent, auspicious, good, and faultless."
Respected Master! Please tell the story.
　　"Paratimucha or even concentration": "'Paratimucha' is the basis of
sila and obedience, [self] restraint of behavior, entrance of
self-control, good dharma, etc. up to the first of (achievement)." or
even concentration', that is the stillness of the mind, stability,
stability, undisturbed, steady mind, samatha, concentration,
concentration, right concentration." .
　　Because of that, the Huaren said:
　　"The discerning one tells the self-evidence of the taming of danger,
　　　Master! Please tell the path, the Paratimcha, or even the
　　calm . " , the ear should be isolated from the village theory,
　　　should not be greedy in taste, and should not take any [things] in
the world as one's own.
　　"Not to be restless with the eyes": What is one who is restless with
the eyes? Here, there is a class of people who have restless eyes: "What
should be seen becomes unseen, and what should be crossed becomes seen."
From garden to garden, from garden to garden, from village to village,
from town to town , from city to city, from country to country, and from
place to place, he is in order to see all kinds of practitioners who are
engaged in long processions and irregular processions, such as those
whose eyes are not stable.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor in the lay house, a walker in the
streets, he walks unprotected: he walks watching the elephant, the
horse, the chariot, the infantry, the woman, the man, Looking at the
boy, looking at the girl, looking at the market, looking at the door of
the house, looking at the top, looking at the bottom, looking around and
walking in all directions, this is also a person with unstable eyes.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he becomes a grasper
of features and a grasper of subtle features. For that reason, when
there is no protection in the root of the eyes, the evil and unwholesome
dharmas of greed and worry will flow in, and he will not follow them.
And action, without protecting the eye root, without attaining
self-control on the eye root, is also a person with unstable eyes.
　　Or as some recluses and brahmins receive food from their venerable
teachers, they live in the practitioners who perform and watch like
this, namely: dancing, singing, music, drama, ancient talk, hand bells,
cymbals, drums, magic, iron ball play , bamboo sticks, stunts, elephant
fights, horse fights, buffalo fights, bull fights, goat fights, ram
fights, rooster fights, quail fights, stick fights, fist fights,
wrestling, drills, parade, army formation, military parade [ DN .1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, para. 13], etc., this
is also a person with restless eyes.
　　How is it not a person with restless eyes? Here, when a bhikkhu is a
visitor in the lay house, a walker in the streets, he walks defensively:
he walks without looking at the elephants, not the horses, not the
chariots, not the infantry, not the women , don't look at men, don't
look at boys, don't look at girls, don't look at the market, don't look
at the door of the house, don't look up, don't look down, don't look
around in all directions. This is not the eye restless person.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he does not become a
grasper of features or a grasper of subtle features. For that reason,
the evil and unwholesome dharmas of greed and worry will flow into the
one who resides in the root of the eye and has no self-control. He goes
to the system for that, guards the eye root, and comes to the
self-control [ SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>] on the eye root,
so that is not the eye restless.
　　Or, for example, after some recluses and Brahmins received food from
their venerable teachers, they lived in people who did not perform and
watch such performances, namely: dancing, singing, music, drama, telling
the ancients... (abbreviated in the middle) military parade, etc. The
viewer of the show is not the one with restless eyes either.
　　"Do not make the eye unsettled": "The unsettled state of the eye
should be discarded, it should be driven away, it should be brought to
an end, it should be brought to non-existence. It should have been
separated from the unsettled state of the eye and abstain from it.
Abstinence, abstinence, renunciation, departure, liberation, and
bondage, he should abide with a mind free from restrictions.” To not be
regarded as unsettled by the eyes.
　　"Ears should be separated from the village theory": The conversation
in the village is called the thirty-two kinds of animal theory, namely:
king theory, thief theory, minister theory, army theory, fear theory,
war theory, food theory, drink theory, clothes theory On, on the car, on
the bed, on the garland, on the smell, on the pro-li, on the village, on
the town, on the city, on the land, on the woman, on the man, on the
hero, on the street, on the well, on the ancestors Theory, the Theory of
All Kinds, the Theory of the Origin of the World, the Theory of the
Origin of the Ocean, Whatever Is [ DN.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, para. 17], etc. "The
ear should be isolated from the village theory": "The ear should be
isolated from the village theory, it should be prevented, it should be
self-controlled, it should be guarded, it should be protected, it should
be closed, and it should be cut off." The ear should be isolated from
the village theory.
　　"In terms of taste, you should not be greedy": "In terms of taste
(in terms of taste), there are root, branch, skin, leaf, flower, fruit,
sour, sweet, bitter, spicy Taste, salty, alkaline, sour, astringent,
delicious, non-delicious, cold, hot, some ascetic and brahmins are taste
cravings, they wander with their tongues seeking the best taste, and
after they get the sour taste, They searched for no sourness, and after
they got no sourness, they searched for sourness... (Abbreviated in the
middle) After getting cool, they searched for hot, and after getting
hot, they searched for cool. Coveting, craving, being bound, fascinated,
tainted, attached, entrenched, obstructed in the desired taste, for whom
this taste craving is abandoned, cut off... ) Those who are burnt by the
fire of wisdom, he eats food after careful inspection: "Neither for
pleasure... (Abbreviated in the middle) without fault, live in peace."
　　If he smears the wound, just for the purpose of [growing flesh], or
If he anoints the axles with oil only for the purpose of transporting
goods, or if he eats the food of the flesh of his son only for the
purpose of saving the desert, likewise, the bhikkhu eats the food after
careful examination: "Neither for pleasure... ...(Abbreviated in the
middle) No fault, live in peace." He should give up the craving for
taste, he should drive away, he should end it, and he should bring it to
non-existence. He should have been separated from the craving for taste,
abstain from it, and abstain from it. , has been detached, has left, has
been liberated, has been freed from bondage, he should abide with a mind
free from restrictions." In terms of taste, he should not follow greed.
　　"And you shouldn't take any [things] in the world as your own":
"There are two kinds of self-attachment: the self-holding of [because]
craving and the self-holding of [because of] seeing.  … My attachment to
craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is my attachment to seeing.
After I have given up my attachment to craving, and I have cut off my
attachment to seeing, I should not regard my eyes as my own, and should
not hold it. , should not be attached, should not be attached, ears...
nose... tongue... body... all forms... all sounds... all smells... all
tastes... all touches... home... group (congregation) ...residence ...
profit ... fame ... praise ... pleasure ... clothes ... food ... shelter
... the patient's needs, medical necessities ... the realm of desire ...
the realm of form ... the realm of formlessness ... the desire to have
... Form has... Formless has... Thought has... No thought has...
Non-thinking is not non-thinking... One aggregate has... Four
aggregates... Five aggregates have... Past... Future... Now... Shouldn't
be Take what you see, hear, feel, and know as your own, and you should
not hold, grasp, or cling to. "Any [thing]", any form, feeling, etc. "In
the world", in the world of the suffering world...the world in the world
of suffering." For and should not take any [things] in the world as
one's own of.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"The eyes should not be regarded as restless, the ears should be
separated from the village theory,
　　　the taste should not be greedy, and nothing [things] in the world
should be taken as one's own." 158
　　. Wherever there is contact, a bhikkhu should not weep,
　　　should not ask for something, and should not tremble in fear.
　　"When touched": "'Touch', the contact of disease. To be touched,
tormented, combined, possessed by contact of disease; to be touched,
tormented, combined, possessed by contact of eye disease; by ear
disease...by nose Disease... Tongue disease... Body disease... Head
disease... External ear disease... Mouth disease... Teeth disease...
Cough... Breathing... External nose disease... Fever... ...by getting
old...by abdominal disease...by coma...by diarrhea...by abdominal
pain...by cholera...by leprosy...by tumor...by ringworm...by lung
disease...by epilepsy...by round Ringworm...by mange...by windworm...by
scratches (a leprosy)...by chapped skin...by blood gall disease...by
diabetes...by hemorrhoids...by rashes (boils and blisters)...by
hemorrhoid fistulas (Ulcers)...diseases caused by gallbladder...diseases
caused by phlegm...diseases caused by wind...diseases caused by [three]
gatherings...diseases caused by seasonal changes...disordered Diseases
born from postures... Diseases that strike suddenly... Diseases that are
reborn in karma... Cold... Hot... Hunger... Thirsty [... feces...
urine]... ...will be touched, tormented, combined, possessed by the
touch of the horsefly, the mosquito, the wind and the sun snake." For
when touched.
　　"Nowhere should a bhikkhu make lamentation": "It should not be made,
should not be made, should not be made, should not be made, should not
be made to lament, lament, weep, lament, lament The state of sighing,
the state of weeping, speech, unhelpful words, muttering, weeping,
weeping, weeping. "Wherever", wherever, wherever, wherever, inside or
out or Inside and outside." No matter where a bhikkhu is, there should
be no weeping.
　　"Should not desire to be": "Should not desire to have desire; should
not desire to be; should not desire to have formless, he should not
desire; should not pray."
　　"And one should not tremble greatly on the one who is afraid": "the
one who is afraid", terror in one form is the one who is afraid. This is
said by the Blessed One, "If it is impossible to abandon that fear and
fear, what if it comes?" The external objects are said to be lions,
tigers, leopards, bears, wild dogs, wolves, bison, horses, elephants,
snakes , scorpions, centipedes, or thieves and rogues who do evil or
prepare to do evil. Or, in other forms, the terrors are called the
terrors of inner equanimity, the stiffness of terror, the erection of
body hair, the fears of fear of the heart: the terror of life, the
terror of old age, the terror of sickness, the terror of death, the
terror of the king. terror, terror of thieves, terror of fire, terror of
water, terror of self-reproach, terror of others' rebuke, terror of
sticks, terror of evil realms, terror of waves, terror of dragon, terror
of whirlpool, terror of crocodile Fear [ AN.4.122
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.122>], the terror of
livelihood, the terror of infamy, the terror of cowardice in a group,
the terror of intoxication, the terror of evil realms, the terror of
terrifying rigidity, the fear of erection, the fear of fear in the
heart. "And ought not to tremble greatly on fearful things": ought not
to tremble, ought not to tremble (strong tremors), ought not to tremble
greatly (strong tremors), ought not to be afraid, ought not to be afraid
(upward fears) after seeing or hearing fear ), should not be afraid
(overwhelmed by fear), should not be afraid, should not come to fear,
should be one who is not cowardly, one who is not frightened, one who
does not panic, one who does not flee, one who has given up fear and
fear, and who has left the body Hair stands up. "Because and shouldn't
tremble a lot in fear.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Wherever a bhikkhu should weep when touched, should
　　　not ask for something, and should not tremble in fear."
　　159. And with food, drink, and hard food, clothes, should not be
stored when obtained, and should not tremble
　　　when they are not obtained .
　　"And for food, drinks, hard food, and clothes": "For food, rice,
porridge, noodles, fish, and meat. For drinks, there are eight kinds of
drinks: mango juice, Jambu juice, and Kura juice. , banana juice, honey
juice, grape juice, lotus root juice, Palusha juice. The next eight
kinds of beverages: Kushangmi juice, jujube juice, red jujube juice,
ghee drink, [sesame oil, etc.] oil drink, milk drink, [cool] ] Porridge
drink, [vegetable juice, etc.] juice drink. "For hard food", hard food
ground into powder, biscuits hard food, root [type] hard food, leather
[type] hard food, leaves [type] hard food Food, flower [kind] hard food,
fruit [kind] hard food. "As for clothes," there are six types of
clothes: linen, cotton, silk, sweater, burlap, and hemp." For food,
drink , for hard food, clothes.
　　"After getting it, it should not be stored": "After getting it,"
after getting it, after getting it, after getting it, after having it,
after receiving it: not by tricks, not by chatting, not by suggestion,
not by sarcasm, not by profit In exchange for other benefits, don’t use
wood, don’t use bamboo, don’t use leaves, don’t use flowers, don’t use
bathing, don’t use washing powder, don’t use clay, Don't use tooth wood,
don't use face wash water, don't use flattery, don't talk about
rhetoric, don't flatter, don't use back slander (Sri Lanka version),
don't use homesteading, don't use animal knowledge, don't use astrology,
don't use He does not use [should] as envoys, [as] to send envoys, [as]
to run errands, not to use medical treatment, not to use new work, not
to give food in return, and not to give alms, he is right with the law
After obtaining, after obtaining, after obtaining, after possessing,
after receiving.” For after obtaining, “should not be stored”, storage
of food, storage of beverages, storage of clothes, storage of cars,
storage of bedding, storage of spices Storage, storage of possessions,
should not be made, should not be produced, should not be produced,
should not be produced, should not be produced." For after obtaining it
should not be stored.
　　"And you shouldn't tremble when you don't get that": "I don't get
food, or I don't get drink, or I don't get clothes, or I don't get home,
or I don't get group, or I don't get shelter, or I don't get I didn't
get a profit, or I didn't get a reputation, or I didn't get praise, or I
didn't get pleasure, or I didn't get clothes, or I didn't get a group
meal, or I didn't get a place to stay, or I didn't get what the patient
needed, medicine Necessities, or I don't get a patient caregiver, he
should not tremble, should not be afraid, should not be afraid, should
not be afraid, should not come to fear: "I am not famous." Those who
don't panic, who don't run away. One should live in those who have given
up fear and fear, who have been erected from the body." For and when you
don't get those, you shouldn't tremble.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"And food, drink, hard food, clothes,
　　　should not be stored when they are obtained, and should not be
trembling when they are not obtained."
　　160. To become a meditator and not a wanderer, one should stop
Regret should not be slack,
　　　and while the seat is in the reclining place, the bhikkhu should
live in a quiet place.
　　"Becoming a meditator and not a wanderer": "A meditator, "a
meditator with the first jhāna, a meditator with the second jhāna, a
meditator with the third jhāna, and a meditator with the third jhāna.
The four meditations become a meditator, and they are also meditators
with the existence of seeking and serviting meditation, and they are
also meditators with non-seeking and only [existing] meditation, and
they are also meditators with joyful meditation. A meditator also
becomes a meditator with walking meditation with joy, a meditator with
walking meditation with mindfulness, a meditator with walking meditation
with music, and a meditator with walking meditation with tranquility ,
also become a meditator with empty meditation, also become a meditator
with non-form meditation, also become a meditator with unwilling
meditation, also become a meditator with mundane meditation, and also
become a meditator with transcendent meditation, he is A lover of Zen, a
practitioner of oneness, a worshiper of the highest interests." is a
meditator.
　　"Not a rogue", what is a rogue? Here a certain type of person has
wanderlust: from garden to garden, from garden to garden, from village
to village, from town to town, from city to city, from country to
country, from local to local, he lives in long processions, Participant
of regular marches. This is the wanderer.
　　Or monks are wandering in the monastery: without the cause of
profit, the cause of no reason, the ground is lifted, from the monk's
room to the monk's room, from the dwelling to the dwelling, from the
half-roofed house to the half-roofed house. From high-rise to high-rise,
from flat to flat, from cave to cave, from cave to cave, from hut to
hut, from heavy pavilion to heavy pavilion, from observatory to
observatory, from tent To the tent, from hut to hut, from lecture hall
to lecture hall, from round house to round house, from tree to tree, or
where the monks sat down, he went there, and there he spoke to one who
became The second, or the third to the two, or the fourth to the three.
There they chatted a lot of obscenities, namely: kings, thieves,
ministers, armies, fear, war, food, drink, clothes, carriages, bedding,
garlands, smells, Theory of pro-li, village, town, city, land, woman,
[man,] hero, street, well, ancestral spirit, all kinds, world origin,
ocean origin, and so on No matter what, this is also a rogue.
　　"Not a wanderer", wandering should be abandoned, driven away,
brought to an end, and brought to non-existence. Should have been
separated from wandering, abstained, abstained, renounced, departed,
liberated, freed from bondage, he should live free from restraint,
should practice, should act, should act, should Turn up, should guard,
should be kept alive, should be kept alive. One should be one who is
happy to sit alone, one who loves sitting alone, one who is a
practitioner of inner stillness, one who does not despise Zen, one who
is contemplative, one who enriches the empty house [ MN.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=32>, paragraph 334], one
who meditates, one who loves Zen, a single Practitioner of sex, admirer
of the highest interests. ' to become a meditator rather than a wanderer.
　　"Should stop regretting and should not let it go": "'regret', the
inaction of the hands (evil deeds) is regret, the inaction of the feet
is also regret, the inaction of the hands and feet is also regret,
inappropriate is thought (considered ) as proper, proper is thought of
as inappropriate, sinless is thought of as sinful, sinful is thought of
as sinless, any regret like this, path of regret, state of regret,
regret of heart , confusion of mind, which is called regret.
　　Furthermore, regret, regret of mind, confusion of mind arise from
two factors: what is done and what is not done. What is done and what is
not done Do things cause regret, regret in mind, confusion in mind? "I
did evil deeds in body, but I did not do good deeds in body." He
generates regret, regret in mind, and confusion in mind; I did not do
good deeds.” He had regrets, regrets in his heart, and confusion in his
mind; “I did evil deeds, but I did not do good deeds... (Abbreviated in
the middle) I did killing living beings, and abstain from killing living
beings. I didn't do it." He felt regret... (abbreviated in the middle)
confusion of meaning; ...I made foul language... I made dirty words... I
made greed... I made malice... I made wrong views, but I didn't make
right views." He felt regretful and heartbroken. Regret, confusion of
mind, regret, regret of mind, confusion of mind arise from what was done
and what was not done.
　　Or, "I am not a full branch on the ring. ' He arises regret, regret
of mind, confusion of mind; 'I am not the one who guards the gates on
the roots. 』……(Omitted) 『I am not a person who knows the right amount
of diet. '... 'I am not a sobriety specialist. '... 'I do not possess
mindfulness and clear knowledge. '... 'The four mindfulness-absences
have not been practised by me. '... 'The four righteous diligences have
not been practiced by me. '... 'The four divine feet have not been
practiced by me. '...'The five faculties have not been cultivated by me.
'...'The five powers have not been practiced by me. '...'The seven
factors of enlightenment have not been practised by me. '...'The Noble
Eightfold Path has not been practised by me. '... 'Suffering is not
known to me. 』…… 『The set has not been discarded by me. '... 'The Tao
has not been practised by me. '... 'Destruction has not been witnessed
by me. ' He generates regret, regret of mind, confusion of mind. "Should
stop regretting", "regret he should stay away, should stop (abstain),
should avoid, regret he should abandon, should drive away, should make
an end, should make it go to non-existence. Should have been separated
from regret, abstained, abstained, renounced, departed, liberated, freed
from bondage, he should abide with a mind free from limitations. 』For
should stop regretting.
　　"You should not let loose", you should be a respectful author, a
constant author, a non-stop author, one who is not in the habit of being
attached, one who does not neglect desires, one who does not neglect
responsibility, and one who does not let go of good Dharma. "How can I
complete the unfinished aggregate of precepts, or can I fund the
aggregated precepts in all aspects with wisdom? 'Where there is desire,
diligence, valour, effort, fortitude, steadfastness, mindfulness,
comprehension, zeal, diligence, establishment, practice, no slack in
good Dhamma; how can I complete the unfinished aggregate of
concentration... ... (abbreviated in the middle) the aggregate of
wisdom...the aggregate of liberation...the aggregate of liberation of
knowledge and view..."How can I know all the suffering that I do not
know, or how can I let go of the pollution that I have not let go, or
how can I practice the path that I have not practiced? Or can I testify
against the untested? 'Wherever he is willing, diligent, courageous,
striving, fortitude, undaunted, mindful, wise, zealous, diligent,
established, practiced, not slack in good Dharma. "I should stop
regretting and shouldn't let it go.
　　"And when the seat is in the reclining place, the bhikkhu should
live in the quiet place": "'And', the continuation of the sentence...
(abbreviated in the middle). 'The place where he sits is called the
seat: bed, chair, cushion, cushion , leather cushions, straw cushions,
leaf cushions, straw cushions. Houses, dwellings, half-roofed houses,
tall buildings, flat houses, and caves are called sleeping places.” To
sit on the sleeping places.
　　"Bhikkhus should live in places with less noise." They should live
in a quiet, quiet, away-from-people atmosphere, where people live alone,
suitable for sitting alone, walking in houses, walking, staying, moving,
turning around, guarding, perpetuating, and using. Survive. "In order to
be seated in a sleeping place, a bhikkhu should live in a quiet place.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"Being a meditator and not a wanderer, one should stop regretting
and should not relax,
　　　but when seated in a reclining place, a bhikkhu should live in a
quiet place."
　　161. One should not sleep more, one should Stay awake, be a zealot, be
　　　lazy, cheat, laugh [out loud], entertain, lust, adornment he
should give up.
　　"You should not sleep more": "The last five parts of the six parts
of day and night should be directed to the Way, and one part should
belying down ." Therefore, more sleep should not be taken.
　　"One should stay awake and become a zealot": "Here, a bhikkhu should
purify his mind from obstacles by walking and sitting peacefully during
the day. In the first night, by walking and sitting quietly, he should
purify the mind from obstacles. In the middle of the night, Lying with
the right flank as a lion, with the [left] foot placed on the [right]
foot, and after thinking about it, you are mindful and wise. In the last
night, after you get up, walk, walk, and sit in peace, you should make
your mind clear. Purification from Obstacles. [ SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>]
　　"Should remain awake", "should remain, should remain fully, should
comply, should bend towards compliance, should fully comply, should be
awake towards compliance." For should remain awake.
　　"Enthusiasm", zeal is called vitality, which is the excitation of
the vitality of the heart, diligence, effort, bravery, diligence,
effort, diligence, fortitude, persistence, unrelenting courage,
willingness not to give up, not neglect. State of Responsibility,
Support of Responsibility, Vitality, Vitality Root, Vitality Force,
Right Effort. Having, fully possessing, reaching, fully reaching,
possessing, fully possessing, possessing this zeal, he is called a
zealot. "Because you should stay awake and be a zealot.
　　"Idleness, deceit, [aloud] laughter, entertainment, lust, and
adornment he should give up": "lazy": lassitude, laziness, a state of
laziness, a state of indolence; laziness, laziness, a state of laziness.
"Deception": The act of deception is called deceit. Here, after a
certain type of people practice evil deeds... (middle abbreviated) with
words... After carrying out evil deeds in the mind, they hide it and
thus establish evil desires. Desire: "May he not know me!" Intention:
"May he not know me!" Phrase: "May he not know me!" [ AN.6.45
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.45>]; physical effort:
"May he not know me!" Anything like this [deceive,] deceive, cross the
line (violate), deceive, deceive, obfuscate, conceal, keep secret, hide
(keep a secret), cover, cover, conceal, conceal deeds, to cover up evil
deeds, this is called deception. "[Out loud] Laughing": Here, a certain
type of person grins excessively. This is said by the Blessed One:
"Bhikkhus! In the Law of the Noble Ones this is the child, that is:
excessive grinning. [ AN.3.108
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.108>]"
　　"Entertainment": There are two kinds of entertainment: physical and
verbal. What is the entertainment of the body? They play with elephants,
they also play with horses, they also play with chariots, they also play
with bows, they also play with swords and other weapons, they also play
with eight-eye chess, they also play with ten-eye chess, they also play
air chess, and they also play with Hopscotch is also played with stones,
dice boards, sticks, hands, dice, leaf flutes, toy hoes, and
somersaults. Also played with a toy windmill, also played with a toy
measuring instrument, also played with a car game, also played with a
toy bow and arrow, also played with guessing characters, also played
with guessing ideas, also played with imitation flaws [ DN.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, paragraph 14 ] ],
which is the entertainment of the body. What is the entertainment of
words? With a voice such as playing a drum, the sound of a drum with the
mouth smeared [imitation], the sound of a drum that was conquered with
the mouth [imitation], the sound made after the lips were bent, the
playing of the drum with the mouth [imitation], the mouth [imitation]
The hollow sound of the drum, the loud cheering, the commotion to the
dancers, the singing, the act of joking, this is the entertainment of
words.
　　Those who are unorthodox, filthy (village), vile, gross, washed with
water after a relationship (by the water), secret, and one-to-one are
called lustful methods. For what reason is it called the law of lust?
"Belonging to two people's greed, greed, full of lust (flow), entangled,
the mind is all-encompassed, two people the same Dharma." For that
reason it is called the law of lust. If there are two quarrels, they are
called "prostitutes"; there are two arguing... (middle) There are two
discussants... there are two arguing... There are two arguing... The
discoursers There were two... two interlocutors, and they were called
"prostitutes". In the same way, "belonging to two people who are greedy,
greedy, full of lust (flowing), entangled, whose mind is
all-encompassed, and both have the same dharma." For that reason it is
called lustful dharma.
　　"Decoration": There are two kinds of decoration: the decoration of
lay people and the decoration of monks. What is decoration at home?
Hair, beards, garlands, spices, balms, accessories (yingluo), ornaments
(yingluo), clothes, bedding, headscarves, massage, rubbing, bathing,
rubbing, mirrors, eye ointment, garland [spice] balm, Face powder, face
cream, bracelets, ribbon hair accessories, sticks, barrels, swords,
parasols, colored shoes, buns, jewelry, whisks, long and short white
clothes (Thailand version), etc., are the decorations of the family.
What is the decoration of a monk? The decoration of clothes, the
decoration of bowls, the decoration of reclining chairs, the decoration
of this rotten body or the decoration of necessities, beautification
(solemn), lust for grooming, good grooming, a state of covetousness, a
state of covetousness, a state of impetuousness, a state of
impetuousness and shallowness. It is the decoration of monks.
　　"lazy, deceitful, [aloud] laughter, entertainment, lustful,
ornamental he should give up": "lazy, deceitful, [aloud] laughter,
entertainment, lustful, ornamental, entourage, surrounded, necessities
(Material) He [all] should give up, should drive away, should end,
should make it to non-existence." He should give up for laziness,
deceit, [out loud] laughter, entertainment, lust, and decoration.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Should not sleep more, should stay awake, be a zealot, be
　　　lazy, cheat, laugh [aloud], entertain, lust, and decorations he
should give up."
　　162. Magic (Atharva), dreaming, accounting Astrology, and astrology
should not be engaged in,
　　　animal sounds, pregnancy, medical skills, believers should not be
engaged in.
　　"Magic (atharva), horoscopes, horoscopes, and astrology should not
be practiced": magicians practice magic: when cities are besieged, or
wars arise, they cause enemies, enemies, enemies Disaster; cause
calamity; cause disease; cause disease; cause abdominal pain; cause
cholera; cause diarrhea. Magicians work on magic like this.
　　The dreamers tell the dream: Anyone who sees a dream in the morning
will have a reward like this; anyone who sees a dream at noon will have
a reward like this; anyone who sees a dream in the evening will have a
reward like this. Retribution; all in the first night... (middle
abbreviated) all in the middle of the night... all in the second
night... all lying on the right side... all lying on the left side...
all facing upward... all facing Lying down...everything that saw the
moon...everything that saw the sun...everything that saw the
sea...everything that saw the king of Mount Sumeru...everything that saw
elephants...everything that saw horses...everything that saw
carriages...everything that saw infantry...everything that saw Armies...
Whoever sees pleasant gardens... Whoever sees pleasant forests...
Whoever sees pleasant land... Whoever sees pleasant lotus ponds, he has
a reward like this . Such dream-seekers inform about dreams.
　　The astrologers informed the signs: jewels, rods, clothes, knives,
arrows, bows, weapons, women, men, girls, boys, female slaves, male
slaves, Elephant, horse, buffalo, ox king, bull, goat, ram, chicken,
quail, lizard, lotus peel, turtle shell, and deer. "The astrologers tell
the signs like this.
　　The astrologers told the constellations: "There are twenty-eight
constellations, with this constellation the writer should enter, with
this constellation the headdress should be tied, with this constellation
marriage should be done, with this constellation the seed should be
transported, and with this constellation. This constellation co-living
should be walked in." In this way the astrologers inform the
constellations.
　　"Magic, dreaming, astrology, and astrology should not be practiced":
"Magic, dreaming, astrology, astrology should not be practiced, should
not be practiced, should not be practiced well, should not be held and
turned, or should not study, should not memorize, should not understand,
should not discern, should not work on." Neither should be engaged in
magic, dreaming, horoscopes, and astrology.
　　"Beast sounds, pregnancy techniques, and medical techniques should
not be practiced by believers": Beast sounds are called animal
languages. The zodiacists tell the zodiac: "They know the roars and
calls of the birds or the quadrupeds." The zomites tell the zodiac like
this. They make the fetus stand up by means of pregnancy, and the fetus
does not stand up for two reasons: by [parasitic] worms or by being
shaken by the wind. Give herbs to the defense against insects or wind
shaking, like this they make the fetus stand still with the gestation
technique. There are five kinds of "healing": ophthalmology, surgery,
internal medicine, exorcism,and pediatrics. "Followers", followers of
Buddha, followers of Dharma, followers of Sangha. He takes the Buddha as
his own, or the Buddha holds that person. This was said by the Blessed
One: "Bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus who are deceitful, stubborn, phony,
hypocritical, arrogant, uncertain, bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus are not my
followers, bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus have left this Dharma, the law. ,
those bhikkhus will not grow, grow, and become full in this dharma and
discipline. Bhikkhus! All those bhikkhus who are not deceitful, not
vain, sturdy, not stubborn, and good at peace, bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus
are mine Believers, bhikkhus! Those bhikkhus have not departed from this
dharma, those bhikkhus have come to grow, grow, and become full in this
dharma and discipline."
　　"Deceitful, stubborn, phony, hypocritical, arrogant, unsettled,
　　　They do not grow in the Dhamma taught by the Universally
Enlightened One, they
　　　are not deceitful, they are not talkative, they are firm, they are
not stubborn, and they are good at being settled, and
　　　they grow in the Dharma taught by the Universally Enlightened
One.”[AN.4.26 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.26>]
　　"The animal voice, pregnancy surgery, and medical skills should not
be practiced by those who believe in it": "The animal voice, pregnancy
surgery, and medical skills should not be practiced by me, should not be
bent, and should not be practiced. It should be fully engaged, should
not be directed towards engagement, should not be practiced, should not
be practiced well, should not be embraced and turned back, or should not
be learned, should not be memorized, should not be understood, should
not discern, should not be committed.” Those who believe in animal
sounds, pregnancy techniques, and medical techniques should not engage
in it.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Magic (Atharva), dream horoscope, astrological horoscope, and
astrology should not be practiced, nor should
　　　anyone who believes in animal sounds, pregnancy, or medicine
practice."
　　163. No blame should be given . Trembling, a bhikkhu should not be
arrogant to praise,
　　　greed with stinginess, anger and alienation he should get rid of.
　　"You should not tremble at the accusation": "Some people here are
either born, or surnamed, or good family sons, or beautiful as lotus
flowers, or property, or research (acquisition), or karma, or Skillful,
or clear (academic), or heard, or eloquent, or rebuke monks for
something, they rebuke, rebuke, rebuke, and when they are rebuked,
rebuked, rebuked, they should not be accused, rebuked, rebuked scolding,
reprimanding, disapproving, trembling with disapproval, trembling
(strong tremor), great tremor (strong trembling), fear, fear (upward
fear), timidity (all fear), terror, come to fear, should To be one who
is not cowardly, one who is not afraid, one who is not panicked, one who
is not fleeing, one who has given up fear and fear, who has stood up
from his body." One should not tremble at the accusation.
　　"Bhikkhu's praise should not be regarded as high or low": "Some
people here are born, or by surname, or by good family, or by beauty as
a lotus flower, or by property, or by research (acquisition), or by
karma, Either with skill, or with clarity (academic), or with what they
have heard, or with eloquence, or with something to praise a monk, they
praise, praise, praise, praise, when praised, praised, praised, praised,
they do not. It should be praised, admired, praised, praised to make
tribute high, arrogant, arrogant, [resolute,] stubborn (arrogance),
should not be arrogant because of that, should not be stubborn and very
rigid because of that He who lifts his head high." For a bhikkhu, praise
should not be considered high or low.
　　"He should get rid of greed and stinginess, anger and alienation":
"greed", that is the state of greed, greed, greed, greed, defilement,
defilement, the root of greed and greed. There are five kinds of
stinginess in "saving and stingy": the obsession with being stingy in
one's residence... (abbreviated in the middle), which is called
stinginess. "Anger", that is hatred, hostility, aversion, hostility,
hatred, anger, provocation, hatred, hatred, wickedness of the mind ,
anger, state of anger, hatred, anger, state of anger, opposition,
hostility, brutal anger, rage, unpleasantness of the heart [this is
called anger]. "Different talker", here, a certain kind of person is a
divisive talker, after hearing it from here, he speaks there in order to
alienate these people, or, after hearing it from there, he speaks here
in order to alienate those people, like In this way, he is the destroyer
of reconciliation, the spreader of division, the one who likes discord,
the one who loves discord, the one who likes discord, and the speaker of
discord, which is called a discordant.
　　Furthermore, divisive language arises for two reasons: by desire to
be lovable, or by desire to be divisive. How to produce alienation with
desire to be lovely? "To this one, I will be lovely, I will be
agreeable, I will be intimate, I will be intimate, I will be kind." This
is what creates the divisive language with the desire to be lovely. How
to produce divisive language with split desire? "How can these become
various, they become separation, they become divisions, they become two
kinds, they become contradictions, they become two factions, they break
apart, they don't make reunions, they make abiding in suffering and
unhappiness." Desire to produce alienation. "Greed together with
stinginess, anger and alienation should be eliminated": "Greed, stingy,
anger, and alienation should be eliminated, eliminated, abandoned,
driven away, brought to an end, and brought to non-existence. "He should
get rid of greed and stinginess, anger and alienation.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"One should not tremble at accusations, and a bhikkhu should not be
arrogant at praise 　　, and he should
　　　remove greed and stinginess, and anger and alienation." Rebuke,
　　　and should not be attached to the village, should not flatter
people for gain. 　　"Should not be involved in business": "Any business
that is rejected in the law, those are not in the interest here. What is
involved in business? Exchange together in five categories [persons]: or
bowls, or clothes, or any other Necessary goods, which can be deceived,
or desires to increase, are involved in the business. How is it not
involved in the business? The five kinds of [people] are exchanged
together: or bowls, or clothes, or any other necessities, which can not
be deceived. , or do not want to increase, this is not involved in the
transaction. "Should not be involved in the transaction": the
transaction should not be involved, should not be established, the
transaction should be discarded, it should be driven away, it should be
terminated, and it should be made to go. to not exist. Should have been
separated from buying and selling, abstained, abstained, renounced,
departed, liberated, freed from fetters, he should abide with a mind
free from limitations. ” means that they should not be involved in trading.



　　"No matter where a monk is, he should not create rebukes." "What is
the pollution that causes rebuke? Some ascetic and brahmins have
supernatural powers, heavenly eyes, and those who know other minds. The
heart knows the heart. Some gods also have supernatural powers, the eyes
of the sky, and those who know the heart of others. They see from a
distance, not from a close distance, and they know their hearts with
their hearts. Rebuked for subtle pollution. What is gross pollution?
Vicious deeds of body, speech, and intention are called gross pollution.
What is medium pollution? It is medium pollution. What is fine
pollution? Intimacy, territorial, sophistry, sympathy for others, fame
and respect, and not being scorned are called fines. pollution. They
will not be reprimanded for gross pollution, or for medium pollution, or
for fine pollution, should not make a censure, should not make a
pollution that causes a censure, should not make it, should not make it
produce, should not make it It should be made to arise, it should not be
made to arise. He should have been separated from the contamination that
caused the rebuke, abstained, abstained, renounced, released, liberated,
freed from fetters, he should be free from restraint And stay.
'Wherever', wherever, wherever, wherever, inside or outside or inside."
No reproach should be created for monks wherever they are.
　　"And should not be attached to the village": What is clinging
(attachment) to the village? Here, a bhikkhu dwells in the village,
socializing with the laity, sharing joy and sorrow: rejoicing when they
are happy, and suffering when they are miserable, he involves himself in
their affairs and duties [ SN.22.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.3>], so that is
clinging to the village.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu puts on his clothes and takes his robe and bowl
before noon, he enters a village or town for the sake of alms, not
guarding his body, not guarding his speech, not guarding his heart, not
showing up his thoughts, not guarding his faculties [ SN.20.10
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=20.10>] , he clings
everywhere, is hooked everywhere, is bound everywhere, comes everywhere
misfortune and calamity [SN.17.4
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=17.4>], this is also
sticking to the village.
　　How not to stick to the village? Here, a bhikkhu lives without
socializing with the laity, with no joys and no sorrows: he does not
rejoice when they are happy, or suffer when they suffer, and he does not
involve himself in their affairs and duties, so that he does not cling
to the village.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu puts on his clothes and takes his robe and bowl
before noon, he protects himself with his body, his speech, his mind,
his mind has emerged, and his faculties have guarded him. In order to
enter a village or town for alms, he does not stick to any place. , not
to be hooked anywhere, not to be bound everywhere, not to come to
misfortune and disaster everywhere, and thus not stick to the village.
"And should not be attached to the village": "Should not be attached to
the village, should not hold, should not be bound, should not be bound
all over. Be not greedy, not bound, not fascinated, not guilty Those who
should have left greed, those who have no greed, and those who have
given up greed... (Middle abbreviation) You should live with yourself as
a Brahman who has already been born." This is and should not be attached
to the village.
　　"You shouldn't flatter people for gain": What is flattery? All
words, gossip, talk, talk, dialogue, entanglement, total entanglement,
vain talk, utter vain talk, flattery, Flattery, gossip, flattery,
backbiting (Cambodian version), anyone who speaks softly, sweetly,
softly, and not harshly there is called flattery.
　　Furthermore, there are two ways of flattering people: making oneself
humble, making others noble and flattering, or making others humble,
making oneself noble and flattering. How to make oneself humble and make
others noble and flattering? [Thinking:] "You are very helpful to me, I
depend on you to get clothes, food, shelter, things the sick need,
medical necessities, and all other givers or want to do they think I
depend on you. For you, all the names that I had come from my parents,
have disappeared to me, because of you I was known as the one who
frequented [a] house like that; the one who frequented [a] house." Thus
It is to make oneself humble, to make others noble and flattering.
　　How to make others humble, and make oneself noble and flattering?
[Thinking:] "I am the one who is of great benefit to you. Because of me,
you have taken refuge in the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha. You are
free from killing, from giving and taking, from sexual misconduct, from
lying, and from lying. Grain wine, fruit wine, and wine, I will give you
instructions, give you inquiries, explain Busa, and build monasteries.
However, after you abandoned me, you respected, respected, respected,
and revered others.” Make others humble, make yourself noble and
flattering.
　　"You shouldn't flatter people for the sake of gain": "You shouldn't
use gain as a cause, gain as a condition, gain as a reason, and flatter
someone for the sake of the rise of gain and the familiarity of gain. He
should give up flattery, he should drive away, It should be brought to
an end, it should be brought to non-existence. It should have been
separated from flattery, abstained, abstained, renounced, released,
freed, freed from bondage, and he should live with a mind free from
limitations. ." Flattering people for not being worthy of gain.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Bhikkhus should not be involved in business, should not create
reproaches wherever they are,
　　　and should not be attached to villages, and should not be
flattering people for gain."
　　165. Bhikkhus should not be boasters, and not Correlativesshould be
spoken,
　　　arrogance should not be learned, and controversial talk should not
be spoken.
　　"A monk should not be a boaster": "Here, a certain kind of person is
a boaster, a show-off, he is a boaster, a show-off: I am a 'one who is
full of morality,' or a "one who is full of restraint," or a "one who is
full of morality and restraint." , or by birth, or by surname, or by
good family, or by beauty as a lotus flower, or by property, or by
research (acquisition), or by profession, or by skill, or by knowledge
(academic), Either by hearing, or by eloquence, or by something, or "a
monk from a noble family" [or "a monk from a large family"], or "a monk
from a wealthy family", or "a monk from a wealthy family" A monk or a
monk” [, or “a person who is a well-known or a well-known person who is
also a monk or a monk”, or “a person who gains in clothing, food,
shelter, necessities for the sick, and necessities for medicine”], or “a
teacher of scriptures” , or a "lawyer (lawyer)", or a "talker", or "a
person who lives in the forest"... (abbreviated in the middle) or "a
person who can get anywhere without thinking or thinking", he brags and
shows off. Like this He should not boast, he should not show off. He
should give up, he should drive away, he should end, he should bring it
to non-existence. , has been liberated, has been freed from bondage, he
should abide with a mind free from restrictions." For a monk should not
be a boaster.
　　"And Shouldn't Say Correlatives": What Are Correlatives? Here, a
certain type of person speaks the correlative language of clothes, the
correlative language of giving food, the correlative language of the
place of residence, and the correlative language of the patient's needs
and medical necessities, which are called correlative words.
　　Or, take clothes as the cause, food as the cause, shelter as the
cause, the patient's need for things, and medical necessities as the
cause. The eloquent language, also known as the wise language, is also
known as the correlative language. Or, teach others the Dharma of
purifying the mind: "Ah! You should really listen to my Dharma. After
listening to the Dharma, you will be purified, and my purifying deeds
will produce purifying." This is also called a correlative. "And should
not say related words": "Even the related words about the teaching of
the law should not be said, should not be told, should not be talked
about, should not be explained, should not be spoken. Leaving, should be
terminated, should be brought to non-existence. Should have been
separated from the correlative, abstained, abstained, renounced,
departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he should be restrained by
renunciation Live with your heart." For and should not say correlative
words.
　　"Should not learn arrogance": "'Arrogance', there are three kinds of
arrogance: arrogance of body, arrogance of speech, arrogance of heart.
What is arrogance of body? Here, a certain type of people come to the
Sangha to show arrogance of body, come I also show physical arrogance in
the group, I also show my physical arrogance in the cafeteria, I also
show my physical arrogance in the bathroom, and I also show my physical
arrogance in the bath. The arrogance of the body is also shown in the
inner time.
　　What is the arrogance of the body when it comes to the Sangha? Here,
a certain type of people who come to the Sangha are not respected, when
they touch the elders and monks, they stand, and when they touch Sit
down, stand in front of [the elder monks], sit down in front, sit down
on a high seat, sit down with your head covered, he stands and speaks,
waving his arms and speaking, this is how he comes to show his body in
the sangha Arrogance.
　　What is the arrogance that comes to the group to show the body?
Here, a certain type of people who come into the group are not
respected, for elders and monks who walk without shoes, they walk with
shoes, and for those who walk in low places Walks on heights, to those
who walk on the ground he walks on the road, when touched he stands,
when touched he sits, stands in front, sits in front, sits on a high
seat , wrapped his head and sat down, he stood and spoke, waving his
arms to speak, this is the arrogance of the body in the group.
　　How is the arrogance of the body in the cafeteria? Here, a certain
type of people are not respected in the cafeteria , he invaded the elder
monks and sat down, blocked the new monks with his seat, when touched he
stood, when touched he sat down, stood in front, sat down in front, sat
down on a high seat, wrapped Sitting down with his head up, he spoke
while standing and waving his arms. This is the arrogance of the body in
the cafeteria.
　　What is the arrogance of the body in the bathroom? Here, a certain
type of person is disrespectful in the bathroom, when touched When the
elders were monks he stood, when touched he sat down, stood in front,
sat down in front, sat down on a high seat, put in the wood without
asking, closed the door without being asked [, waving his arms to speak]
, this is the arrogance of showing the body in the bathroom.
　　What is the arrogance of showing the body in the bath? Here, there
is a certain type of person who is not respected in the baths, when he
touches the elder monks he jumps in, he jumps in front, when he touches
he bathes, in front, and above, when he touches he goes from Out of the
water, out of the water in the front, out of the water in the top, this
is the arrogance of the body in the bath.
　　What is it like to show bodily arrogance when entering a layman?
Here, a certain type of person who is not respected when entering the
lay family, walks when he touches the elder monks, walks in front, and
walks away from the right path [repeatedly] walks in front of the elder
monks [transcendence], so when entering Shows bodily arrogance in the
layman.
　　What is the arrogance of the body when one has entered the lay?
Here, when a certain type of people has entered the lay family, they are
called "Great virtue! Please don't [want to] enter" he entered when it
was said, when "Dude! Please don't [to] stand" when he was said to
stand, be "Dude! Please don't [sit] down." He sat down when it was said,
and he entered when there was no room, he also stood when there was no
room, and he also sat down when there was no room, the inner chamber of
the layman, the hidden, the secret: the layman Where women, lay women,
lay women, lay girls sit, he also enters roughly, and he also touches
the heads of boys. This is the arrogance of the body when he has entered
the lay. This is the arrogance of the body.
　　What is the arrogance of words? Here, a certain type of people come
to the Sangha and show the arrogance of words, they come into the
community and they show the arrogance of words, and they also show the
arrogance of words when they have entered the laity. What is the
arrogance of coming to the Sangha to show words? Here, a certain type of
people who come to the sangha are not respected, after not asking the
elder monks, or without being asked, and speaking to the monks who have
entered the monastery, answering questions, reciting the paratimus, he
stands Talking, waving your arms and talking, this is the arrogance of
coming into the Sangha to show the words.
　　What is the arrogance of coming into a group to show verbal
arrogance? Here, a certain type of person comes into the group as a
person who is not respected. After not asking the elder monks, or
without being asked, he preaches and answers questions to the monks who
have entered the monastery. The bhikkhunis, upasakas, and upasakas in
the garden spoke and answered questions. He stood and spoke, waving his
arms to speak. This is the arrogance of his speech when he came into the
group.
　　What is the arrogance of showing words when one has entered the lay?
Here, a certain class of people, having entered the lay family, said to
a woman or a girl: "What is there with a name like this, with a surname
like this: Is there milk porridge, food, hard food? What will we drink?
What will we eat? What will we chew? Or what: what will you give me? '
He murmured [, whoever speaks like this, unhelpful words, murmurs,
gossips, babbles, gossips], such is the arrogance of speech when one has
entered the laity. This is the arrogance of words.
　　What is the arrogance of the heart? Here, a certain type of person
who is not a monk from a noble family considers himself to be the same
as a monk from a noble family. ,] It is not that the slow-minded person
who became a monk from a wealthy family considers himself to be the same
as the monk who is a wealthy family, nor is the slow person who has
become a monk from a wealthy and wealthy family. , those who are not
sutra teachers consider themselves to be the same as sutra teachers,
those who do not uphold the law are slow... those who do not speak are
slow... those who do not live in forests are slow... those who are very
begging are slow Those who don't wear dung-sweeping clothes, there are
those who are slow... Not only those who wear three clothes, there are
those who are slow... There are those who are not orderly begging for
food... There are those who do not eat after eating. There are those who
are slow... Very sitting [not lying down] Those who are slow... Those
who do not live anywhere, those who are slow take their minds to be
equal to those who live everywhere, those who have slowness who have not
attained the first jhāna, who regard themselves as equal with those who
have attained the first jhāna, must not attain the second jhāna. There
are those who are slow... those who do not get the third jhāna... there
are those who are slow... those who do not obtain the fourth jhāna...
There are those who are slow who do not obtain the boundless space of
emptiness... There are those who are slow who do not obtain the
boundless place of consciousness... Those who are arrogant who have to
get nothing... The arrogant people who have to get what they want and
wait for everything they want to regard themselves as equal to those who
get everything they want is the arrogance of the heart. "Should not
learn", should not learn to be arrogant; Arrogance he should give up, he
should drive away, he should end it, and he should bring it to
non-existence. Should have been separated from arrogance, abstained,
abstained, renounced, departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he should
abide with a mind free from limitations. "Because we shouldn't learn to
be arrogant.
　　"Controversial talk should not be talked about": "What is
controversial talk? Here, a certain class of people is a talker like
this: 'You don't know this law, law... You can." This was said by the
World Honored One: "Mugallana! When there is a dispute, more talk can be
expected; when there is more talk, there will be failures; those who
fail are not self-control; those who are not self-control are far away
from the heart. [ AN.7.61
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.61>]'" "Controversial
talk should not be talked about": "Controversial talk should not be
talked about, should not be talked about, should not be explained,
should not be said. Controversial talk should be discarded, It should be
driven away, it should be brought to an end, it should be brought to
non-existence. It should have been separated from controversial talk,
abstained, abstained, renounced, released, released, freed from bondage,
and he should have Live away from the limited mind." For should not talk
about controversial talk.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Bhikkhus should not be boasters, and should not speak correlative
language,
　　　should not learn to be arrogant, should not talk about
controversial talk."
　　166. One should not be taken away in false speech, deliberately
deceitful It should not be done, and
　　　it should not despise other people with life, wisdom, precepts and
prohibitions.
　　"It should not be taken away in false speech": false speech is
called false speech, here, a certain class of people go to the
synagogue, or to the assembly place... (abbreviated in the middle) or a
few temptations and therefore deliberately false speech [ AN. 3.28
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.28>], which is called
false speech. Or, take three deeds as lying: just before [speaking]
[thinking]: "I'm going to lie." While speaking [thinking]: "I'm lying."
When having said [thinking]: "The lie has been spoken by me." Take these
three behaviors as lie. Or, with four signs...with five signs...with six
signs...with seven signs...with eight signs as a lie: just before
[saying] [thought]: " I will speak lies." When speaking [thought]: "I
speak lies." When it has been said [thought]: "I have told lies." There
are dissenting (wrong) views and dissent. Likes, hobbies with different
attachments, thoughts with different attachments, and nature with
different attachments, these eight behaviors are used as lies. "It
should not be carried away in false speech": "It should not be carried
away in false speech, should not be carried away, should not be carried,
should not be carried. False speech should be discarded, it should be
driven away, It should be brought to an end, it should be brought to
non-existence. It should have been separated from false speech,
abstained from, abstained from, renounced, released from, liberated
from, and freed from bondage. Stay." For in vain words should not be
taken away.
　　"Intentional fraud should not be done": What is fraud? Here, a
certain kind of person is a deceiver, a deceiver all over, and where
there is deceit, deceitful appearance, deceit, deceit, falsehood,
pretence, pretence, this is called deceit. "Deliberate deceit should not
be done": After becoming intentional deceit, he should not do (build),
should not cause it, should not cause it to produce, should not cause it
to arise, should not cause it to arise. Having been separated from
deceit, renounced, renounced, renounced, detached, liberated, freed from
fetters, he should abide with a mind free from limitations. "It should
not be done for willful fraud.
　　"And you shouldn't despise other people with life, wisdom, precepts
and prohibitions": "And", "The continuation of the sentence...
(abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the sentence, which is
"you". Here, a certain class of gross subsistences scorns other sublime
subsistences: "How rich is this one, who eats everything, namely: root
seed, stem seed, knot seed, self-falling seed, seed seed [for ] Fifth,
the hammer with thunderous teeth also known as the Samana! [ DN.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=25>Paragraph 61]" He
despised the other saviours of the wonderful life with that gross life.
　　Here, a certain class of sublime subsistencers scorns other gross
subsistence subsistences: "What an unknown and incompetent one is not a
gainer of clothes, food, shelter, necessities of the sick, medical
necessities." With that victory he Wonderful life contempt for other
rude life supporters. Here, a certain type of person who is wise, and he
answers the question being asked, he thinks like this: "I am wise, but
these other people are not wise." He despises others with that wise.
Here, a certain kind of person is a person who is virtuous, who lives
and is protected by the self-control of Paratimukha, who has the right
conduct, the state of conduct, who sees terrible things in the small
sins, who learns after receiving and upholding them, he thinks so. : "I
am a person who is fully ordained, but these other monks are those who
break the precepts, who are evil." He despised other people with that
virtue. Here, a certain type of people are those who are forbidden:
those who live in the forest, or those who often beg for food, or those
who wear dung-sweeping clothes, or those who wear three clothes, or
those who beg for food sequentially, or those who do not eat after
eating, or who often sit [without lying down] ], or those who live
everywhere. He thought, "I am the forbidden one, but these other people
are not the forbidden one." He despised the others with that forbidden
one. "And you should not despise other people with life, wisdom,
morality and restraint." It is because of that that pride arises, and it
is not because of that that you become stubborn, very rigid, and hold
your head high.” And because of that, one should not despise others with
life, wisdom, discipline, and restraint.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"No one should be taken away in false speech, no deliberate
deception should be committed, and
　　　no one should be despised by life, wisdom, precepts, and restraints."
　　167. Hearing of ascetic or ordinary people After many words, when
provoked,
　　　one should not speak back rudely, because the silent ones do not
fight back.
　　"When you are provoked after hearing many words of a recluse or an
ordinary person": "'When you are provoked,' when you are slandered,
rebuked, annoyed, scorned, scolded, insulted. A 'sramana' is any Enter
the marchers from here, enter the marchers. "Ordinary people" are
Kshatriyas, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods,
people. They will use many undesired, Unpleasant, unpleasant words
Abusive, slandered, irritated, annoyed, hurt, annoyed, killed, annoyed,
hurt. Many of their undesired, unpleasant, unpleasant words have been
heard and heard , after grasping, after understanding, after
discernment." For hearing many words of ascetic or ordinary people, when
provoked.
　　"You shouldn't say it back rudely": "'Roughly', you shouldn't say it
back in a rude, rude way, you shouldn't argue back, you shouldn't scold
someone who is abusive, you shouldn't respond to someone who provokes
anger, you shouldn't say it back. The contender should return [ SN.7.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=7.2>], should not
quarrel, should not quarrel, should not quarrel, should not quarrel,
should not quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, dissent, he
should give up It should be cut off, it should be driven away, it should
be brought to an end, it should be brought to non-existence. It should
have been separated from quarrel, contention, quarrel, quarrel, dissent,
abstained, abstained, renounced, departed, liberated, Having been freed
from the bondage, he should live with a mind free from being
restricted." This is why he shouldn't say it harshly.
　　"Because the quiet ones don't fight back": "The quiet ones", "The
greedy ones have been quieted down to the quiet ones, the hatred...
ignorant ones... the angry... resentful ones... (middle abbreviated),
all those who are not good and pretentious have been quieted The state,
the calmed state, the calmed state, the extinguished state, the cooled
state, the departed state, the rested state is the still, the still, the
calmed, the cooled, the still.” for the stilled . "Because the silent do
not fight back": The silent do not fight back, wrestling rivals,
enemies, rivalries, they do not make it come into being, they make it
not produce, they do not make it arise, they do not make it come into
being. "Because the silent ones don't fight back.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"When being provoked, having heard many words of recluses or
ordinary people,
　　　It should not be said harshly, for the Silent Ones do not fight back.
　　168. After knowing this Dharma, the selected monks should always
study mindfully,
knowing that " 　　　silence" is cessation, and the teachings of Gautama
should not be let loose.
　　"After knowing this Dhamma": "This Dhamma explained, taught,
informed, established, uncovered, analyzed, explained, explained,
understood, understood, measured, judged, distinguished After that,
after clarifying it.” This is after knowing this Dharma. Or, "The right
and the wrong, the [right] way and the wrong, the sinful and the
innocent, the base and the wonderful, the black and the white, the way
the wise men rebuke and the wise men praise. After knowing, after
understanding, after measuring, after judging, after distinguishing,
after clarifying.” This is also after knowing the Dharma. Or, "The right
path, the path that follows, the path that is not reversed, the path
that does not contradict, the path that is as it is, the path that
follows the law, the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the
door on the roots, the path of eating and drinking. Those who know the
right amount, specialize in sobriety, mindfulness and clear
understanding, the four mindfulness, the four righteous efforts, the
four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
factors of enlightenment, the eight noble paths, nirvana and the path
leading to nibbana. After, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying.” This is also after
knowing the Dharma.
　　"A monk who chooses should always study mindfully": "'Choose', "When
choosing; when choosing strongly; when evaluating; when judging; All
actions are impermanent"... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection
of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" when examining and choosing; when
strongly examining and choosing; when measuring; when judging; when
distinguishing; when clarifying." Selected monks. "Always", always; all;
all times... (Abbreviated in the middle) old age. "Contemplative ground
(of)", there are four ways to be conscientious: when practising on the
body with contemplation When the body is mindful, he is a mindful one...
(Middle abbreviation) He is called a mindful one. "Should study", there
are three kinds of learning: increase the precepts, increase the mind,
and increase the wisdom... (Middle abbreviation) This is It is the study
of increasing wisdom. These three studies should be studied when facing
(notice)... (abbreviated in the middle) should be studied, should be
practiced, should be practiced well, and should be turned after
receiving and upholding.” The monk who chooses for inspection should
always be Learning mindfully.
　　"After knowing that 'quietness' is annihilation": "The 'quietness'
of greed is quenched after knowing, hatred...delusional...(Abbreviated
in the middle), all unskillful and artificial 'quietness' is quenched
after knowing and understanding , after measuring, after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying." In order to know that "silence" is
after annihilation.
　　"The admonition to Gautama should not be taken lightly": "The
admonition to Gautama, the admonition to the Buddha, the admonition to
the conquered, the admonition to the Tathagata, the admonition to the
gods, the admonition to the The Arahant's admonition. "Do not let
loose", one should be a respectful author, a constant author, a non-stop
author, one who has a habit of not being attached, one who does not
neglect desires, and one who does not neglect duty in good Dharma; "How
can I Completing the unfinished aggregate of precepts... (abbreviated in
the middle) Unfinished aggregate of concentration... wisdom aggregate...
liberation aggregate... liberated knowledge and view aggregate... How
can I be omniscient about the unperceived suffering, or how can I let go
Defilement of renunciation, or can I practice the unpracticed path, or
can I bear witness to the cessation of the untested?” Where there is
desire, diligence, valor, effort, fortitude, unflinching, mindfulness,
comprehension, zeal, diligence, Establish, practice, do not slack in
good Dharma." For the teaching of Gautama there should be no slack.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"After knowing this Dharma, the monk who chooses should always study it
　　　mindfully. After knowing that 'silence' is cessation, the
teachings of Gautama should not be let loose."
　　169. Because He is an unconquerable conqueror, he sees self-evidence
rather than hearsay,
　　　so indeed the teachings of the Blessed One should always be
studied respectfully by those who do not let loose. [Like this Blessed
One (saying)]
　　"Because he is the conqueror who is not conquered": "'Conqueror',
conqueror of form, conqueror of sound, conqueror of smell, conqueror of
taste, conqueror of touch The conqueror, the conqueror of the Dharma, is
not conquered by any pollution, he conquers the evil and unwholesome
Dharma: follow the pollution, the rebirth, the fearful, the suffering,
and the future will be born, old and dead.” Because he is not conquered.
the conqueror.
　　"He sees self-evidence rather than hearsay": "'Self-evidence', not
from hearsay, not by works like this, not by tradition, not by virtue of
the three possessions, not by theoretical contemplation, not by
contemplation and acceptance He sees, sees, sees, and understands the
Dharma that he has personally realized and realizedby himself.” It is
for him that he sees the Dharma that is self-evidence rather than hearsay.
　　"Therefore indeed the teaching to the Blessed One": "'therefore',
therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that cause. The
teachings of Gautama, the teachings of the Buddha, the teachings of the
conquered, the teachings of the Tathagatas, the teachings of the devas,
the teachings of the Arahants.” So indeed the teachings to the Blessed
One .
　　"Those who do not let loose should always follow their studies with
respect. [Like this, the World-Honored One (said)]": "'Those who do not
let loose', the respectful author... (abbreviated in the middle) those
who do not let loose on the good Dharma. "Always", always; [everything;]
all the time... (Abbreviated in the middle) old age. "Respect",
reverence with the body, or reverence with words, or reverence with the
heart, or as such The meaning is to pay homage, or to pay homage to the
law, respect, respect (Thailand version), respect, reverence, and
respect. There are three kinds of learning in "Xi Xue": increase the
precepts and increase the heart Learning, increasing the wisdom of
learning... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the learning of
increasing wisdom. These three learnings should be learned when facing
(notice)... (Abbreviated in the middle) should be learned, practiced,
and tested as evidence and should be testified. After good practice and
upholding, you should turn around. "World Honored One", a synonym for
respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym) who testifies,
that is, the World Honored One." In order not to let loose, one should
always follow the study with respect. [Like this the Blessed One (saying)]
　　Because then the Blessed One said:
　　"Because he is the conqueror who is not conquered, he sees
self-evidence rather than hearsay,
　　　so it is true to the Lord's teaching that he who does not let
loose should Always follow your studies with respect. [Like this, the
Blessed One (saying)]"
　　Explanation of the Quick Sutra No. 14 [Completed].


Excerpt:
　1. Studying the ground with mindfulness (precepts, concentration, and
wisdom) to tame the slowness of seeing (the slowness of what I am - the
root of false papañca delusions) and love (the craving of the heart) to
achieve Nirvana.
　2. Those who can prove and know the Dharma should not be stubborn
(stubborn/high and slow - grades wins and inferiors).
　3. What is not taken (I see/hold) is rejected (disconnected/released).
　4. The method of subduing danger: don’t look everywhere, don’t listen
to the village theory, don’t be greedy for taste, don’t be mine, don’t
cry when you’re sick, don’t pray for something, don’t tremble when
you’re afraid, don’t store food and clothing, don’t tremble when you’re
lacking, live less Don't wander around, don't regret, don't let loose,
don't sleep too much with enthusiasm, don't cheat/laugh out
loud/entertainment/lust/dress up, don't engage in
magic/dream/horoscope/astrological/beast sounds/pregnancy/ Medical
skills, don't care about birth, get rid of greed and stingy, don't get
involved in business, don't cling to the village, don't flatter, don't
boast, don't suggest, don't be arrogant, don't despise others
(self-esteem), don't talk controversial, don't lie, don't Fraud, don't
fight back---Learn with respect.
　12/14/2020 16:40
