Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
15. Explanation of the Sutraof the Stick-Bearer
　　Next of the Stick-Bearer Sutra will say:
　　170. The horror that arises from the stick-taker: See you people of
dissent,
　　　I will tell about the sense of urgency: by causing me to be
aroused by a sense of urgency .
　　"The horror that arises from the one who takes the stick": "[The
stick], there are three kinds of sticks: the stick of the body, the
stick of speech, and the stick of mind. The stick of the intention.
"Terror", there are two kinds of terror: the terror of the current life
and the terror of the next life. What is the terror of the current life?
Here, a certain type of people practice evil deeds, practice evil words,
and evil intentions In practice, he kills, takes without giving, invades
people’s houses, takes (carries) plunder, acts as a robber, robs the
road, commits adultery (walks into) other people’s wives, and speaks
falsehood. After he is captured, they go to see him. King: "Your
Majesty! This is a thief and a criminal. You can judge and punish him."
What? From the one who takes the club is born, is born, is born, is
born, is presented.
　　The king is not satisfied with this situation, the king imprisoned
him, bound with handcuffs, or with ropes, or with fetters, or with vines
Binding, or tying with german, or tying by throwing, or tying with
fence, or tying with village, or tying with town, or tying with city, or
tying with state, or tying with locality, even it was proclaimed: "You
must not go away from here." He also felt grief because of bondage.
Where did this terror, suffering, and grief come from? He was born,
born, born, born, born from the one who took the stick.
　　In this situation, the king is not satisfied. The king carries his
property: a hundred or a thousand or a hundred thousand. He also feels
suffering and sorrow because of the loss of his property. Where did this
terror, suffering, and sorrow come from? , be born, be born, be born, be
born.
　　The king was not satisfied with this situation, and the king imposed
various punishments on him: whipping, beating with sticks, beating with
sticks, cutting off hands, feet, hands and feet, ears, nose, ears and
nose, and punished with sour porridge Pot Punishment, Shell Punishment
Punishment, Luohou Mouth Punishment, Fire Furling Punishment, Candle
Hand Punishment, Drive Punishment Punishment, Bark Clothe Punishment
Punishment, Antelope Punishment Punishment, Hook Meat Punishment
Punishment Punishment Punishment Punishment Punishment Alkaline Bath
Punishment Punishment Twisting the Door Bark Punishment Straw Foot
Stepping Punishment Hot oil makes a dog bite, alive to be stabbed,
beheaded with a sword, and he also feels pain and sorrow because of the
punishment. Where did this terror, pain, and sorrow come from? From
whoever takes the stick is born, born, born, born, born. The king is the
master of these four kinds of rods.
　　By his own work, by the disintegration of his body, he has been
reborn in the world of misery, the lower realm, the lower realm, and the
hell after death. The jailers gave him five kinds of bondage
punishments: they put the red-hot iron rod through the palm, they made
the red-hot iron rod pass through For the second palm, they put the
red-hot iron rod through the sole of the foot, they put the red-hot iron
rod through the second foot, and they put the red-hot iron rod through
the chest in the middle. There he feels bitter, intense [, violent,
MN.129 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=129>], pungent
sensations, and he does not die until that negative karma is eliminated.
Where did this terror, suffering, and worry come from? From the rod that
has been taken is born, born, born, born, born.
　　After the jailers made him lie down, they cut him with an axe. There
he feels bitter, intense, pungent sensations, and he does not die until
that bad kamma is eliminated. The guards grabbed him on the feet and
head down, and cut him with a small axe... After the guards yoke him on
the cart, they made him go back and forth on the ground that was lit,
burnt and splendid... They made him climb up and down the flaming,
radiant charcoal volcano... (Abbreviated in the middle) After the
jailers grabbed him from top to bottom, they threw him into the hot,
fiery, burning, red In the copper pot, where he was being boiled
foaming, and when he was being boiled there, he went up, down, and
sideways. There he feels bitter, intense [, violent], acrid sensations,
and he does not die until that negative karma is eliminated. Where did
this terror, suffering, and worry come from? From whoever takes the
stick is born, born, born, born, born. The jailers threw him into the
great hell, and that great hell:
　　"There are four gates in the four corners, divided into equal parts,
　　　The perimeter is iron wall, and the top is covered by iron.
　　　The ground is made of iron, burned to the point of light by fire,
　　　all one hundred yojanas, and lasts all the time after it is spread.
　　　It is terrible to burn miserably, to have flames that are
difficult to approach,
　　　and to look like the hair is standing upright, is the terror of
suffering.
　　　From the east wall, the fire gathering was waited,
　　　burning the evil karma, and was countered at the west.
　　　From the west wall, the fire gathering was waiting,
　　　burning the evil karma, and was counterattacked on the east.
　　　From the north wall, the fire gathering was waiting,
　　　burning the evil karma, and was counterattacked at the south.
　　　From the south wall, the fire gathering was waiting,
　　　burning the evil karma, and was counterattacked at the north.
　　　From below, the terrifying fire gathered,
　　　burning the evil karma, and was countered at the roof.
　　　From the roof and the like, a terrifying fire gathers,
　　　burning evil karma, and is counterattacked on the ground.
　　　The fiery iron pot, red hot as if being burned,
　　　such an endless hell belongs to what is seen below and above.
　　　There living beings are great tyrants, authors of great crimes, and
　　　karma of the highest order, and they are tortured and never die.
　　　The body is equal to fire: belongs to the inhabitant of hell,
　　　Seer of solid karma, [the coal fire] has neither ashes nor ashes.
　　　They run east, from there they run west,
　　　they run north, and from there they run south.
　　　Every direction they ran out of, the door was closed,
　　　they had the desire to go out, and all living beings were seekers
of escape.
　　　They don't go out from there, they get it by karma, and
　　　for those with bad karma, there is a lot that has been done that
is not yet mature. '
　　Where did this terror, suffering, and sorrow come from? From the one
who takes the stick arises, arises, begotten, begotten, arises. Also,
all the sufferings of hell, the suffering of the animal world, the
suffering of hungry ghosts, and the suffering of humans, where did they
arise, where did they arise, where did they arise, where did they arise,
where did they arise? From the one who takes the stick arises, arises,
begotten, begotten, arises. "The terror of the stick taker.
　　"Please look at people who are dissent": "The 'people' are
Kshatriyas, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and
people. People with dissent are quarrelsome people, hostile people
People, people with opposition, people hit, people hit back, people hit,
people hit back, please see, please see, please watch, please watch,
please watch ." To invite you to see those who are dissent.
　　"I will tell of urgency": "The sense of urgency is horror, fear,
terror, oppression, blow, scourge, calamity. 'I will tell', I will
announce, I will speak, I will explain, I will teach, I will Tell, I'll
build, I'll uncover, I'll parse, I'll elucidate, I'll explain." For I
will tell the urgency.
　　"According to my sense of urgency": "According to myself, so that I
am aroused, terrified, and generated by a sense of urgency." Because of
this, I was aroused by a sense of urgency.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"The horror that arises from the one who takes the stick: please
look at the people who are different, and
　　　I will talk about the sense of urgency: I am aroused by a sense of
urgency."
　　171. After seeing people who are throbbing, they are like fish in less
　　　water Becoming hostile, upon seeing terror entered me.
　　trembling, trembling (strong tremor), big trembling (strong
trembling). "After seeing", after seeing, seeing, measuring, judging,
separating, and clarifying. "After seeing the throbbing people.
　　"Like fish where there is little water": "As fish where there is
little water, where the water is exhausted, they are attacked by crows
or eagles or cranes, plucked up, throbbed by eating [, strong
throbbing], completely throbbing, enlarged throbbing, trembling,
trembling, great tremor, like this one trembles with the tremor of
craving... (abbreviated in the middle) trembles with the suffering of
the decay of seeing [, strong tremor], totally trembling throbbing,
throbbing, trembling, trembling, trembling." It is like a fish in a
place with little water.
　　"Become hostile to each other": "All beings are hostile to each
other, are against each other, are attacked, are counter-attacked, are
attacked, are counter-attacked: Kings argue with kings, Kshatriyas Also
argue with Kshatriyas, Brahmins argue with Brahmins, house owners argue
with house owners, mothers argue with sons, sons disagree with mothers,
fathers disagree with sons, sons disagree with fathers Discuss, brother
to brother, sister to sister, brother to sister, sister to brother,
friend to friend. When they quarrel, quarrel, argue, fight each other
with fists, clods, sticks, swords attack, where they suffer death, or
suffering like death. [ MN.13
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=13>]” for becoming
hostile to each other.
　　"Terror entered me after seeing": "'After seeing', after seeing,
after seeing, after measuring, after judging, after separating, after
clarifying. Terror, oppression, blow, calamity, calamity entered." For
seeing After the horror entered me.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"After seeing the throbbing people, they became like fish in a place
of little water, and
　　　became hostile to each other. After seeing it, terror entered me."
　　172. Nothing in the world is solid, all directions are completely
shaken,
　　　Wanted my place, [but] I didn't see one that wasn't occupied.
　　"Everything in the world is not solid": "The world, the world of
hell, the world of beasts, the world of evil spirits, the world of human
beings, the world of gods, the world of khandha, the world of worlds,
the world of life, this world , other worlds, the world of Brahma, the
world of gods, this is called the world. The world of hell is solid with
constant, or solid with joy, or solid with me, or with constant, or with
solid , or the eternal, or the immutable law as not solid, non-solid,
and separated from solid. The world of the animal world... (abbreviated
in the middle) the world of the evil ghost world... the world of human
beings... the world of heaven... the aggregate The world of the
world...the world of the world...the world of the living...this
world...other worlds...the world of Brahma...the world of the gods is
solid with constant solidity, or solid with joy, or solid with me,
Either it is permanent, or it is firm, or it is eternal, or it is
unchangeable
　　. Hemp is not solid, not solid, and has been separated from solid,
as figs are not solid, not solid, and separated from solid, such as
white reeds are not solid, not solid, and separated from solid, such as
chinshuka tree is not solid , No solid, has separated from solid, such
as foam group is not solid, no solid, separated from solid, such as
water bubble is not solid, no solid, separated from solid, such as yang
flame is not solid, no solid, separated from solid Solid, such as dried
plantains are not solid, non-solid, and separated from solid, such as
illusion, which is not solid, non-solid, and separated from solid. In
the same way, the world of hell is always solid and solid, or enjoys
solid solid. , or I am firm and firm, or permanent, or firm, or eternal,
or unchangeable, unsteady, non-solid, and divorced. The world of the
　　animal world... the world of the evil spirit world ...the world of
human beings ... the world of heaven is based on the constant solidity,
or the joyful solidity, or my solid solidity, or the constant, or the
solid, or the eternal, or the unchangeable Dharma. Not solid, not solid,
separated from solid. The world of khandha... the world of the world...
the world of being... this world... other worlds... the world of
Brahma... the world of gods is always solid and solid, or Take the
solid, the solid, the solid, the permanent, the solid, the eternal, or
the unchangeable, the solid, the solid, the solid.” For everything in
the world is not solid. solid.
　　"All directions are completely shaken": all the formations in the
east direction are shaken, completely shaken, moved: stirred by
impermanence, accompanied by birth, followed by old age, conquered by
sickness, tormented by death, in suffering Those who are upstairs and
have no shelter, no refuge, no refuge, no refuge. All the actions in the
direction of the west... (abbreviated in the middle) all the actions in
the direction of the north...all the actions in the direction of the
south...all the actions in the middle direction of the east...all the
actions in the middle direction of the west...(abbreviated in the
middle) all the actions in the north The formations in the middle
direction...the formations in the middle direction of the south...the
formations in the lower direction...the formations in the upper
direction...the formations in the ten directions, those are also shaken,
completely shaken, To be moved: stirred by impermanence, accompanied by
birth, followed by old age, conquered by disease, tortured by death,
established in suffering, without shelter, without refuge, without
refuge, without refuge. Again, this is also said:
　　"Even if your heavenly palace shines and shines in the north, you
　　　will always tremble after seeing the fault of color, so the wise
and wise are not happy with color. [ SN.6.6
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=6.6>]"
　　"The world is tormented by death, Surrounded by old people,
　　　pierced by arrows of craving, always swayed by desire. [ SN.1.66
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=1.66>]"
　　"All worlds are burning, all worlds are smoking,
　　　all worlds are burning, all worlds are burning Trembling. [ SN.5.7
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=5.7>]”
　　for being completely shaken in all directions.
　　"Want my abode": "My abode, a shelter, a refuge, a place of refuge,
a place to go, a place of refuge, a wanter, a receiver, a wisher, a
desire, a supplicant." For wanting my residence. "[But] I do not see
what is not taken": only what is taken, not what is not taken: all young
is taken by old, all that is not sick is taken by disease, all life is
taken by death, all All the gains are possessed by the unprofitable, all
the fame is possessed by the no-name, all the praise is possessed by the
reproach, and all the pleasures are possessed by the suffering.
　　"The dharmas
　　　that are impermanent, very constant, and changeable among people
are the dharmas that are impermanent, very constant, and changing. [
AN.8.5 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=8.5>]"
　　is [but] I do not see that which is not possessed.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Everything in the world is not solid, all directions are completely
shaken,
　　　wanting my abode, [but] I do not see what is not occupied."
　　173. But at the end the hostiles, seeing Then there was my unhappiness,
　　　when here he sawthe thorn arrow: the invisible, the one that
connects the heart.
　　"But in the end all the hostiles": "'but in the end', 'Old age ends
all youth, sickness ends all sickness, death ends all life, nothing gain
ends all gain, no fame ends all fame "Rebuke ends all praise, and
suffering ends all happiness." However, in the end, the "enemy" wants
young beings to be opposed by the old, those who want to be free from
disease are opposed by disease, and those who want life are opposed by
the old. Death opposes, those who want gain are opposed by no gain,
those who want fame are opposed by namelessness, those who want praise
are reprimanded, those who want happiness are opposed by suffering,
struck, counter-struck, and attacked , was counterattacked." For
however, in the end the hostiles.
　　"After seeing, there is my unhappiness": "'after seeing', 'after
seeing, after seeing, after measuring, after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying'. No joy, no great joy, no great joy,
no dissatisfaction, all fear." Because of my unhappiness after seeing it.
　　"At that time and here he saw the stabbing arrow": "'At that time',
the continuation of the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the order of the sentence, which is 'then'. 'Here', on all living
beings. 'The arrow' , there are seven kinds of thorns: greedy thorns,
hatred thorns, foolish thorns, slow thorns, seeing thorns, worry thorns,
doubt thorns. "He sees", he sees, sees, sees, understands ." For that
time and here he saw the stabbing arrow.
　　"Hard to be seen, connected to the heart": "'hard to be seen', 'hard
to see, hard to see, hard to see, hard to realize, hard to perceive,
hard to be seen' Accessible." It is difficult to see. "Connected to the
heart", the heart is called the heart, that is the heart, the mind, the
mind, the heart, the white (pervasive), the mind, the mind-base, the
mind-root, the consciousness, the consciousness Aggregate, corresponding
to that realm of consciousness. "connected to the heart", connected to
the heart, connected to the heart, connected to the heart, coexisting
with the heart, joined, connected, co-born, co-existed, and the same
base , the same object." The hard to see, the one connected to the heart.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"But at the end of the hostiles, I was unhappy when they saw it,
　　　when here he saw the thorn arrow: the hard to see, the one that
connects the heart."
　　174. Anyone shot by a thorn arrow . Or, he ran around in all
directions,
　　　but when the thorn arrow was drawn, he didn't run or sink.
　　"Whoever is shot by a stab arrow, he runs around in all directions":
"Stab arrow", there are seven kinds of stab arrows: greedy stab arrow,
hate stab arrow, stupid stab arrow, slow stab arrow, see stab arrow, The
arrow of sorrow, the arrow of doubt. What is Greedy Arrow? That is
greed, greed (complete greed), following greed, accommodating, joyful,
greedy, the greed of the heart... (the middle abbreviated) greed, the
root of unwholesome greed, this is greed thorns the arrow.
　　What is a stinging arrow? "He has acted against me (no benefit)."
Hatred arises; "He acts against me." Hatred is generated; "He will act
against me." Hatred is generated... (omitted) brutal The anger, the
rage, the displeasure of the heart, this is the stinging arrow of hatred.
　　What is a stab arrow? Ignorance of suffering... (abbreviated in the
middle) ignorance on the path, ignorance in the past, ignorance in the
future, ignorance in the past and future, in specificconditions
andconditions arising from conditions The ignorance of those who are not
seen, not seen, not aware, not properly enlightened, not grasped, not
firm, not deeply understood, not properly seen, not examined, not
understood, inferior wisdom, ignorance, ignorance, ignorance, ignorance
Obscure, ignorant, ignorant storm, yoke of ignorance, latent tendency of
affliction of ignorance, entanglement of ignorance, fence of ignorance,
root of delusion, this is the arrow of delusion.
　　What is a slow stabbing arrow? : The slowness of "I am the winner",
the slowness of "I am the equal", the slowness of "I am the inferior",
all the slowness of the heart like this, the situation of thinking,
thinking, tribute high, high or low, flag, high, Vanity of the heart,
this is the slow stabbing arrow.
　　What is a stabbing arrow? There are twenty bases with body views,
ten bases with wrong views, ten bases with marginal views, such views,
evil views, jungle views, desert views, distorted views, wavering views,
grasping, accepting, clinging, clinging to the view of bondage, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the wrong way, the
grasping of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grasping of the reverse
(viparīta), the reverse (vipallāsa) The grip of the evil, the grip of
evil, the grip of the unreal [considered] as "real", all to the reach of
the sixty-two evil views, this is a stabbing arrow.
　　What is the Arrow of Sorrow? Reached by the misfortune of relatives,
or the loss of disease (unfortunate), or the loss of property, or the
loss of precepts (loss), or the misfortune of seeing, with some
misfortune, contact with some suffering Dharma practitioners have
sadness, sadness, a state of sadness, internal sadness, internal
sadness, internal burning, internal burning, and heart burning, sadness,
this is the arrow of sadness.
　　What is Doubt Sting Arrow? Doubt on suffering, Doubt on the origin
of suffering, Doubt on the cessation of suffering, Doubt on the path
leading to suffering, Doubt on the past, Doubt on the future, Doubt on
the past and future, Doubt on specific conditions and conditions
Suspicion in the birth of Dharma, all such doubts, doubts, states of
doubt, confusion, hesitation, doubts, crossroads (doubts), doubts, not
always grasping, doubts, hesitations, unresolved, rigid states of mind
(stubborn states) ), the mind is confused, this is the arrow of doubt.
　　"Whoever is shot by a piercing arrow, he runs around in all
directions": "pierced by a piercing arrow, pierced, touched, tormented,
combined, possessed to do evil deeds with body, and evil with words , Do
evil deeds with intention: killing, taking without giving, invading
other people's houses, taking (carrying) plunder, also being a robber,
also robbing the road, adultery (walking into) other people's wives,
saying falsehood, and being stabbed like this The arrow shoots in,
shoots through, touches, tortures, combines, runs with possession, runs
around, walks around, keeps going around. Combining, possessing, and
being hit by the cold and heat, being tortured by the contact of
horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, scorching sun and snakes, dying from
hunger and thirst, walking to the low rolling glass; All over the city;
to Weisun'e; to Weila Botao; to Ruowa; to Damanli; to Bengal; to the
Deaf Bound; to the Golden Summit; Go to Suboda Ge; go to Baluge; go to
Sule Tao; go to Baneroge; go to Banerna; Ni.7
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni7.htm>, 55 verses]; go to that; go to
the first instant; go to Venaga; go to Murapotao, go to the dangerous
road in the desert; go to the road that can only be passed by walking on
the knees; go to the goat The way to go; the way to go to the sheep; the
way to walk with the support of a pillar; the way to walk by holding an
umbrella; the way to cut bamboo bushes; the way to walk; Rat road;
walking to the crack road; walking to the rattan road, when he asks for
everything, he doesn't get it, because he doesn't get it, he feels
misery; when he asks for everything, he gets it, and he feels misery
because of the protection he got: "Is my property right?" The king will
not take it, nor the thieves, nor the fire, nor the water, nor the
unlovable heirs. ' When he guards and protects in this way, his
possessions are destroyed, and he suffers from separation. Like this, it
is also shot in, pierced, touched, tortured, combined, run with, run
around, walk around, go around, and go around.
　　Being stabbed by an arrow of hatred... (Abbreviated in the middle)
being stabbed by an arrow of infatuation... being shot by a slow-stab
arrow, penetrated, touched, tortured, combined, possessed to do evil
deeds with one's body, do evil with words, and do evil with mind Action:
Killing, taking without giving, invading other people's houses, taking
(carrying) loot, also being a robber, also blocking the road, adultery
(walking into) another's wife, speaking falsehood, being shot by a slow
stabbing arrow like this, shot To wear, to touch, to torment, to
combine, to run with, to run around, to go around, to keep going.
　　Being shot into, pierced, touched, tormented, combined, possessed by
a stabbing arrow to become a naked walker, one who leaves the right
walk, one who licks his hands, one who does not come when invited, and
one who cannot stand when invited. He was not brought, not invited
individually, not invited. The one who does not accept food from the
mouth of the urn, the mouth of the pot, not the middle of the threshold,
not the middle of the stick, not the middle of the pestle, not the two
who are eating, not from a pregnant woman, not from a lactating woman,
not from a woman with Men live in women, not where food is collected
during starvation, where dogs appear, and where flies swarm. No fish, no
meat, no grain wine, no fruit wine, no sour porridge. That he is a group
eater of one family, or a group eater of two families... (Abbreviated in
the middle) or a family of seven. To live by giving one place, and also
live on two places... (abbreviated in the middle), and also live on
seven places of giving. He eats one meal a day, and one meal every two
days... (Abbreviated in the middle) He also eats one meal every seven
days, like this, and like this for half a month, he lives in the
practice of committing to eating food regularly [ DN.8
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=8>, para. 394]. Like
this, being shot in, pierced, touched, tortured, combined, run with, run
around, walk around, go around constantly.
　　Or, being shot, pierced, touched, tortured, combined, possessed by a
stabbing arrow, he becomes a lettuce eater, or a barnyard eater, or a
raw rice eater, or a Dadurami eater, or a sage eater Those who eat rice
bran, or rice juice, or sesame powder, or herbivores, or cow dung,
subsist on forest roots and fruit food, and fall fruit for food. He
wears linen, and hemp-mixed fabrics, and shrouds, and manure-sweepers ,
and low-knife bark, and chamois, and sheepskin, and thatch, and bark,
and Wear wood-chip clothing, also wear hair knitted clothing [, also
wear animal hair knitted clothing], also wear owl feather clothing. He
is also a beard-puller, a person who lives in hair-pulling beard and
devotes himself to practicing. He is also a person who often stands and
refuses to take a seat. He is also a squatter and a diligent
practitioner of squatting. He also sleeps on thorns, sleeps on thorn
mattresses, also sleeps on planks, and sleeps on hard ground. It is also
a person who lives in the open air, and who lives everywhere. It is also
a person who eats filth, a committed practitioner of eating filth, and a
practitioner who does not drink beverages and does not drink beverages.
Also lives in dedicated practitioners who bathe for the third time at
dusk. As such, dwell in the practice of many such forms of asceticism
and torture of the body. Like this, it is also seen that the piercing
arrow shoots in, shoots through, touches, tortures, combines, runs with
possession, runs around, walks around, and keeps going around.
　　Shot in, pierced, touched, tormented, combined, possessed and
grieved, tired, weeping, beating breasts and wailing, came to confusion.
This is said by the Blessed One [ MN.87
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=87>]:
　　"Brahmin! Once upon a time, in this city of Shevet, a certain
woman's mother died, and when she died, she went mad, lost her heart,
went from street to street, walked from cross to cross, and said, "Did
you see My mother? Did you see my mother?"
　　Brahman! Once upon a time, in this Shewei City, a certain woman's
father died...(Medium) Brother died...(Medium) Sister died...(Medium)
Son died...(Medium) Daughter died... ...(Midden) her husband died, and
when he died, she went mad, lost her mind, went from street to street;
walked from intersection to intersection and said, "Did you see my
husband? Did you see my husband?" ?"
　　Brahman! Once upon a time, in this city of Shevet, there was a man
whose mother died, and when she died, he went mad, lost his mind, went
from street to street, walked from crossroad to crossroad, and said,
"Did you see My mother? Did you see my mother?"
　　Brahman! Once upon a time, in this city of Shewei, a certain man's
father died...(Medium) Brother died...(Medium) Sister died...(Medium)
Son died...(Medium) Daughter died... ... (Midden) the wife died, when
she died, he went mad, lost his mind, went from street to street; walked
from crossroad to crossroad and said, "Did you see my wife? Did you see
my wife?" ?"
　　Brahman! Once upon a time, in this city of Shewei, there was a
certain woman who went [to take refuge with] relatives who wanted to
take her husband and then wanted to give her to someone else she didn't
want. That's when the woman said this to her husband, "Sir! [My]
relatives are going to take you [and then want to give me to someone
else I don't want], and the two of us will die." At that time, The man
cut the woman in half and then committed suicide: "After death, we will
[remain] a couple."" Like this, being shot in, shot through, touched,
tortured, combined, possessed and run away , run around, walk around,
move around constantly.
　　Being shot, pierced, touched, tormented, combined, possessed by the
piercing arrow of doubt, one who leaps into doubt, one who leaps into
doubt, one who arises in doubt: 'Did I exist in a past life? Did I not
exist in my past life? What is my past life? How was my past life? What
was my past life, and what did [later] become? Will my future life
exist? Does my future life not exist? What will my future life be? How
will my future life be? What will my future life be, and what will it
become [in the future]? ' Or, he now has doubts about the present world
in his heart: 'Do I exist? do I not exist? What am I? How is my
situation? Where did these beings come from and where are they going? [
SN.12.20 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.20>]' being
shot in, pierced, touched, tormented, combined, possessed, run around,
run around, go around, go around constantly.
　　He made these thorns, and when he made these thorns, he ran east,
west, north, and south because of the thorns. The pretense of those
stabbing arrows has not been discarded, and in the state where the
pretense of stabbing arrows has not been discarded, run to the place of
interest: run to hell, run to the realm of animals, run to the realm of
hungry ghosts, run to the world of human beings, run to the sky The
world, from place of interest to place of interest, from rebirth to
rebirth, from rebirth to rebirth, from existence to existence, from
reincarnation to reincarnation, from reincarnation to reincarnation,
running around, running around, walking around, constantly Circling
around. ' For whoever is shot by a piercing arrow, he runs around in all
directions.
　　"But after the stabbing arrow was drawn, he neither ran nor sank":
"'But the greedy stabbing arrow, the hatred stabbing arrow, the foolish
stabbing arrow, the slow stabbing arrow, the sight stabbing arrow, the
sad stabbing arrow, and the doubt stabbing arrow were pulled out. After
coming out, after pulling out, after pulling out, after taking out,
after removing, after completely removing, after cutting off, after
driving away, after finishing, after making it go to non-existence, he
does not run to the east nor to the west, Neither to the north nor to
the south. The pretense of those thorns and arrows has been discarded,
and in the state where the pretense of those thorns and arrows has been
discarded, do not run to the place of interest: not to hell, not to
beasts, not to Running to the world of hungry ghosts, not to the world
of humans, not to the world of heaven, not from the place of interest to
the place of interest, not from rebirth to rebirth, not from rebirth to
rebirth, not from being to being, not from reincarnation, not from
reincarnation He runs around in circles, runs around, walks around,
keeps going around.” But after the stabbing arrow was drawn, he didn’t
run. “It didn’t sink,” it didn’t sink in the violent flow of desire, it
didn’t sink. There are some storms, the storms that don’t sink in
seeing, don’t sink in the storms of ignorance, don’t sink, don’t sink
completely, don’t sink down, don’t sink down, don’t go, don’t go down.”
Because when the thorn arrow was drawn, he did not run or sink.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Whoever is shot by a stabbing arrow runs around in all directions,
　　　but when the stabbing arrow is pulled out, he neither runs nor
sinks."
　　175. There he learned to be sung along: Those who are bound in the
world
　　　should not be enthusiastic about those things. After piercing all
desires, they should study for their own nirvana.
　　"Learn there to be sung along with: those who are bound in the
world": "Study", elephantology, horse study, carriage study, bow study,
ophthalmology, surgery, body healing, exorcism, child healing Learn
(Thai version). "Sung along", chanted, sung, talked about, talked about,
explained, spoken. Or, chanted, learned, remembered, understood,
discerned , in order to obtain bondage. The "bound" are called the five
kinds of desires: there are those things that can be recognized by the
eye, those that are wanted, those that are loved, those that are
desirable, those that are lovable, those that accompany desires, and
those that are tainted by greed, Sounds cognizable by the ear... smells
cognizable by the nose...smells cognizable by the tongue...things
cognizable by the body, wanted, loved, desirable, lovable, Accompanying
desire, the touch of greed. What reason is bound is called the five
desires? Most gods and human beings want, receive, desire, desire, and
pray for the five desires, and those who are bound for that reason are
bound by the five desires. Called the Five Desires. 'In the world', in
the world of men." To learn to be sung there: all who are bound in the
world.
　　"You should not be enthusiastic about those things": "You should not
be enthusiastic about those things, or study them, or the five desires,
you shouldn't take that as your object, be someone who doesn't strive
for that, who doesn't lean toward that. Not to the one who overcomes,
not to the one who increases." For those should not be zealous.
　　"After piercing all desires": ""After piercing" is after
penetration: "All actions are impermanent" after penetration, "All
actions are suffering" after penetration... (Abbreviated in the middle)
"Any collection of dharmas is cessation of dharmas" "After the
penetration. "Everything", completely and completely, completely in
every aspect, completely without remainder, completely, this is the word
of universal grasping, which is "everything." Desires and Desires of
Contamination... (Middle abbreviated) These are called desires for
things... (Middle abbreviated) These are called Desires of Pollution."
To pierce all desires.
　　"You should study for your own nirvana": "There are three kinds of
"learning": the study of increasing precepts, the study of mind, and the
study of wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the study of
increasing wisdom. "For one's own nirvana" , in order to extinguish
one's greed; in order to extinguish one's hatred; in order to extinguish
one's delusion... (Abbreviated in the middle) For the calmness,
tranquility, calmness, cooling, cessation of thoughts, and cessation of
all unwholesome deeds, one should learn to increase Precepts should also
be learned to increase the mind, and should also be learned to increase
the wisdom. These three studies should be studied when facing (notice);
when you know, you should study... (Abbreviated in the middle) when the
testimony should be testified It should be studied, it should be
practiced, it should be practiced well, and after receiving and
upholding, it should be turned around.” It should be studied for one’s
own Nirvana.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"There you learn to be sung along: those who are bound in the world
　　　should not be enthusiastic about those things, but after piercing
all desires, they should study for their own nirvana."
　　176. Those who should be true, Those who are not arrogant, those who
do not deceive, those who give up dissent, and those who are
　　　not angry, Muni can overcome evil, greed, and stinginess.
　　"Those who should be truthful, not arrogant": "'should be truthful',
'should have truthful language, should have right view, and should have
the Eightfold Noble Path'. Those who should be truthful. Three kinds of
arrogance: arrogance of the body, arrogance of speech, arrogance of the
mind... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the arrogance of the mind.
For him, these three kinds of arrogance are discarded, cut off, calmed
down, stopped, cannot arise, He who is burnt by the fire of wisdom is
called the one who is not arrogant." He should be the real one, the one
who is not arrogant.
　　"Those who do not deceive, and those who renounce alienation":
"Deception is called deception. Here, after a certain type of people
practice evil deeds; after they practice evil deeds; Hence the
establishment of evil desires, he desires: "May he not know me!"
Intention: "May he not know me!" Saying: "May he not know me!" [ AN.6.45
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.45>]; with physical
effort: "May he not know me!" 』Everything like this deceives, deceives,
crosses the line (violates), deceives, deceives, confuses secretly,
conceals, keeps secret, conceals (keeps secret), conceals, conceals,
conceals, conceals, conceals , to cover up evil deeds, which is called
deception. Whoever for him this deception has been abandoned, cut off,
calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burnt by the fire of wisdom, he is
called a non-deceiver. "Abandon the alienated talker", "the alienated
talker" Here, a certain type of person is the alienated talker...
(Abbreviated in the middle) In this way, the alienated language is
produced by the desire for division. Whoever for him the estrangement is
discarded, cut off, calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the
fire of wisdom, he is called the renouncer, the estranger, the
quarreller. . ” For those who do not deceive, those who renounce
alienation.
　　"Those who are not angry, Muni can overcome greed and stinginess":
they are called "those who are not angry," but only those who are angry
can be said. Anger arises with the ten types of actions: "He has done me
wrong. [ AN.9.29 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=9.29>]"
Anger arises... (abbreviated) For whomever this anger is discarded, cut
off, calmed down, quenched , who cannot arise and is burned by the fire
of wisdom, he is called one who is not angry. Those who are not angry
are those who have given up their anger; those who are not angry are
those who are omniscient about the things of anger; those who are not
angry are those who have renounced the causes of anger. "Greed", that is
the state of greed, greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed,
the root of greed is not good. Miserliness is called the five types of
miserliness: [the] obsession with the miserliness of the abode...
(abbreviated in the middle), [this] is called miserliness. "Muni", Muni
is called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending and
dyeing the net, he is Muni. "Those who are not angry, Muni can overcome
evil greed and stinginess": "Muni transcends, surpasses, passes,
overcomes, overcomes evil greed and stinginess." For those who are not
angry, Muni can overcome evil greed and stinginess.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"One should be the one who is truthful, who is not arrogant, who is
not deceitful, who abandons slanderous words, and who
　　　is not angry. Muni can overcome greed and miserliness."
　　177. Sleep, laziness, and shyness should be conquered Shen, should
not live with Lai Yi,
　　　One should not stand very slowly: one whose mind is nibbāna.
　　"Sleep, laziness, and heaviness should be conquered": "sleep", which
is the unbearable state of the body, unfit for work, covering, covering,
inner dullness, sleep (drowsiness), dream dozing, dreaming sleep,
falling asleep status. "Lazy (burnout)", that is the state of burnout,
indolence, indolence, the lazy state of meaning; lazy, indolent,
indolent state. "Depressed" is a state of mind that is unbearable,
unsuitable for work, tainted, withdrawn, dull, depressed, withdrawn,
sluggish, dazed, and dazed. "Should conquer sleep, laziness, slump":
"Sleep and laziness and slump he should conquer, should win, should
conquer, should defeat, should overwhelm, should end, should crush." ​
​For should sleep, laziness should be conquered , Shen Shen.
　　"Should not live with indulgence": in the evil deeds of the body, or
in the evil deeds of speech, or in the evil deeds of the mind, or in the
five kinds of desires, indulgence can be turned, and the renunciation of
the mind does not arise. , or the state of non-respect for the practice
of good Dharma, the state of impermanent action, the state of constant
action, the state of clinging to the habit, the state of neglecting the
will, the state of neglecting the responsibility, the state of not
practicing, not practicing, not doing much , do not establish, do not
practice, let loose. Any state of letting loose, letting go, letting go
like this is called letting go. "Should not live with ease": "Should not
live with ease, live together, dwell, stay (pervasive), he should give
up, drive away, end, make it go. It does not exist. He should have been
separated from liberation, abstained, abstained, renounced, departed,
liberated, freed from bondage, and he should abide with a mind free from
restrictions." live together.
　　"You shouldn't stand with extreme slowness": "'Extremely slow',
here, a certain class of people may despise others by birth, or by
surname... (abbreviated in the middle) or by something. Anyone who is
slow, thinks, or thinks like this The situation, the high, the low, the
banner, the high, the vanity of the heart, this is called extremely
slow. It should not stand with extreme slowness, live together,
extremely slow he should give up, should drive away, should end It
should be brought to non-existence. It should have been separated from
extreme slowness, abstinence, abstinence, renunciation, departure,
liberation, release from bondage, and he should live with a mind free
from limitations." Because you should not stand very slowly.
　　"Those whose minds are on Nirvana": "Here, a certain class of people
are those who give alms, those who take precepts, those who do karma,
those who serve drinks, those who wash water, those who clean
monasteries, those who pay homage to pagodas and temples Those who hang
fragrant flowers in the pagoda temple, those who circle the pagoda
temple on the right, whoever does good deeds in the three realms, do not
do it because of interesting places, not because of rebirth, not because
of rebirth, not because of existence, not because of reincarnation, not
because of rebirth Because of samsara, he does everything that is free
from bondage, inclined toward Nibbāna, inclined toward Nibbāna, inclined
toward Nibbāna." Such is the person whose mind is toward Nibbāna. Or,
"After the mind is freed from all forms of formation, the mind gathers
in the realm of immortality: this is stillness, this is sublime, namely:
the cessation of all formations, the cessation of all attachments, the
cessation of craving, the renunciation of greed, cessation, nirvana."
This is also a person whose mind is directed towards nirvana.
　　"The wise do notgive generosity for the pleasure of attachment and
for rebirth,
　　　but rather for the sake of exhaustion of attachment and for
non-rebirth, they give generosity.
　　　The wise and wise do not practice all kinds of generosity for the
pleasure of attachment or for rebirth. Zen,
　　　they would rather practise the dhyanas for
　　　the sake of the annihilation of their attachments, in order not to
regenerate. They wish to give it away (Sri Lankan version), and their
minds tend to that, toward that solution,
　　　like a river into the ocean, and they practise the other side of
Nibbāna. ."
　　For those whose minds are toward Nirvana.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Sleep, laziness, sluggishness should be conquered, one should not
dwell with indolence, one should
　　　not dwell in extreme slowness: one whose mind is nibbāna."
　　178. One should not be taken away in lies In terms of sex, one
should not create love,
　　　one should know all about slowness, and one should practice
arbitrary abstinence.
　　"It should not be taken away in false speech": false speech is
called false speech, and here a certain class is brought to the
synagogue, or to the assembly, or to the kin, or to the community, or to
the palace Ask as a witness: "Hey! Come! man! Please say what you know.
' He said without knowing: 'I know. ' Or, as he knows, 'I don't know. '
He said without seeing: 'I see. ' Or, what he saw said, 'I didn't see
it. ' As such, he speaks deliberately falsely [AN.3.28] for his own
cause, or for the cause of others, or for the cause of something less
tempting [ AN.3.28
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.28>], which is called
false speech. Or, with three elements... (abbreviated in the middle)
with four elements... with five elements... with six elements... with
seven elements... with eight elements... (abbreviated in the middle)
Take these eight behaviors as lies. "Should not be carried away on false
speech": "Should not be carried away on false speech, should not be
carried away, should not be carried, should not be carried. False speech
should be discarded, it should be driven away, it should be To end, it
should be brought to non-existence. He should have been separated from
false speech, abstained, abstained, renounced, released, liberated,
freed from bondage, and he should live with a mind free from limitations
.” For in vain words should not be taken away.
　　"There should be no love in form": "Form" isthe form created by the
four elements and the four elements. "Affection should not be created in
form": "In form there should be no affection, no desire, no affection,
no greed, no cause, no production, no cause. To arise, it should not be
made to arise." For the sake of materiality one should not create
eroticism.
　　"Should know all about slowness": take one kind of slowness: it is
the high and low of the heart, take two kinds of slowness: self-praise
is slow, contempt for others is slow, and three kinds of slowness: "I am
the winner" is slow Slowness, "I am equal" is slow, "I am inferior" is
slow, and there are four kinds of slowness: slowness by gain, slowness
by fame, slowness by praise, and slowness by pleasure The production is
slow, and the five are slow: "I do get the desired form." Make it slow,
"I do get the desired sound... (abbreviated) smell... taste... touch."
Make it slow , taking six kinds of slowness: the ability of the eyes to
make it slow, the ability of the ear... the ability of the nose... the
ability of the tongue... the ability of the body... the ability of the
mind to make it slow, There are seven kinds of slowness: slowness,
extreme slowness, slowness and extreme slowness, inferiority, slowness
of growth, slowness of what I am, and evilness of inferiority. humility,
fame, humility, praise, humiliation, reproach, humility, pain, humility,
Seed is slow: the winner thinks: "I am the winner" is slow, the winner
thinks: "I am equal" is slow, the winner thinks: "I am the inferior" is
slow, the equal thinks : "I am the winner" is the slow, the equal
thinks: "I am the equal" is the slow, the equal thinks: "I am the
inferior" is the slow, the inferior thinks: "I am the winner" is The
slow and inferior think: "I am equal" is slow, the inferior thinks: "I
am inferior" is slow, and ten kinds are slow: Here, a certain type of
people is born by birth, or by surname... ( Abbreviation) or something
to make it slow, those who are like this slow heart, thinking, thinking
situation, tribute high, high slow, flag, high, heart vanity, this is
called slow.
　　"It should be omniscient and slow": "There should be three kinds of
omniscience and omniscience: knowing omniscience, evaluating
omniscience, and giving up omniscience. It is the arrogance of the
heart, which is based on two kinds of slowness: self-praise is slow,
contempt for others is slow... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is ten
kinds of slow: Here, a certain type of people is born, or by surname...
... (abbreviated in the middle) or something to slow it down." He knows,
he sees, this is what he knows and knows.
　　What is Measured Omniscience? After making this known, slow him to
measure it as impermanent and suffering... (Abbreviated in the middle)
He makes it measure renunciation, which is the measure of omniscience.
　　What is renunciation of omniscience? "After measuring in this way,
slow him to give up, drive him away, bring him to an end, and bring him
to non-existence." This is the omniscience of renunciation. "Should be
omniscient about slowness": "should be omniscient about these three
kinds of slowness."
　　"Abstain from wanton behavior": "What is wanton behavior? The greedy
person acts wanton behavior, the angry person acts wanton behavior
because of anger, the foolish person acts wanton behavior because of
delusion, and the Those who are bound will behave arbitrarily with slow
actions, those who cling will behave arbitrarily with their actions of
view, those who have come to disperse will behave arbitrarily with their
behaviors that are unreasonable, and those who have not come to the
conclusion will behave arbitrarily with their behaviors with doubts.
Behaviors, those who come to the fortitude to defile the underlying
tendencies of behaviors have arbitrary behaviors, which are arbitrary
behaviors. "Should practice arbitrary abstinence": "Should have
separated from arbitrary behaviors, abstained, abstained, and passed
out. Leaving, leaving, liberating, and being free from bondage, he
should abide with a mind free from limitations, he should practice, he
should act, he should act, he should turn, he should guard, he should
continue, and he should live.” Willful abstinence should be practiced.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said, "You shouldn't be
　　taken away with false speech, you shouldn't create love for sex,
　　　you should know all about slowness, and you should practice
arbitrary abstinence.
　　" You
　　　should not be sad because of the disappearing, and you should not
be the dependant of the hooker.
　　"Should not rejoice in the former": "The former are called the past
forms, feelings, perceptions, formations, and consciousness. In the past
formations one should not rejoice, welcome, cling to (cling), Rejoicing,
welcoming, holding on, clinging, clinging, clinging, he should give up,
he should drive away, he should end it, and he should bring it to
non-existence.” It should not be rejoicing in the past.
　　"There should be no liking in the new": "The new is called the
present form, feeling, perception, formations, and consciousness. In the
present formations there should be no liking, desire, volition, arising
from craving and seeing. Love and greed arise, he should not make it,
should not make it, should not make it arise, should not make it arise.”
Because love should not arise in the new.
　　"Should not grieve over what is disappearing": "When disappearing,
losing, declining, dissipating, leaving, diminishing, perishing, he
should not grieve, he should not be weary, he should not take, he should
not weep, he should not Beating the chest and crying, should not come to
confusion: when the eye disappears, loses, declines, dissipates, leaves,
diminishes, and disappears, in the ear... (abbreviated in the middle) in
the nose... in the tongue... in the body... In color...in sound...in
smell...in taste...in touch...in home...in group (congregation)...in
residence...in profit...in fame...in praise...in music... ...in clothing
... in feeding ... in dwelling ... when the patient needs things,
medical necessities disappear, lose, decay, dissipate, go away,
diminish, perish, he should not grieve, he should not be weary, he
should not take You shouldn't weep, you shouldn't be beating your chest
and weeping, you shouldn't come into confusion." You shouldn't be sad
about what's disappearing.
　　"Should not be the dependant of the hooker": The hooker is called
craving, which is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the
root of unwholesome greed. For what reason are hookers called cravings?
Those who are drawn, completely drawn, grasped, grasped, and colored by
craving for him, feel... (abbreviated in the middle) think... act...
know... interest... rebirth... rebirth... have (existence)... ...
samsara... samsara pulls, pulls completely, holds, clings, clings, and
for this reason those who are hooked are called craving. "Should not be
the clinger of the hooker": "Should not be the clinger of craving,
craving should be abandoned, it should be driven away, it should be
brought to an end, it should be brought to non-existence. Craving for
separation, abstinence, abstinence, renunciation, departure, liberation,
freedom from bondage, he should abide with a mind free from
limitations." As one who should not be a dependant of a hooker.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"You should not rejoice in the former, and you should not rejoice in
the new,
　　　You should not be sad about the disappearing, and you should not
be the dependant of the hooker.
　　180. I say that greed is a "great flood", I say that desire is a
torrent,
the 　　　object's determination (Thailand version), the mud of desire
is difficult to overcome.
　　"I say greed is a 'great storm'": greed is called craving, and that
is greed, greed... (the middle abbreviated) greed, the root of greed.
The great outburst is called craving, which is greed, greed... (the
middle abbreviated) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "I say greed
is the 'big flood'": "I say, I explain, I teach, I inform, I establish,
I uncover, I decipher, I clarify, I explain that greed is the 'big
flood.'" I say greed is the "big storm".
　　"I say craving is running": craving is called craving, which is
greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of greed. The rush is also
called craving, which is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of greed. "I say eagerness is rushing": "I say, I
explain... (Abbreviated in the middle) I clarify, I explain that
eagerness is 'flushing'." Say eagerness for me as rushing.
　　"The Condition of the Object (Thailand Version)": "The object is
also called craving, which is greed, greed... (the middle abbreviated)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. The fixed view is also called
craving, which is greed , greed... (middle abbreviated) greed, the root
of greed is unwholesome." For the object's fixation (Thailand version).
　　"The mud of desire is difficult to overcome": "The mud of desire,
the quagmire of desire, the pollution of desire, the quagmire of desire,
the obstacle of desire are difficult to overcome, difficult to overcome,
difficult to escape, difficult to pass, difficult to overcome ,
difficult." The mud of desire is difficult to overcome.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"I say greed is a 'great flood', I say craving is a torrent,
　　　the fixation of the object (Thai version), the mud of desire is
hard to overcome."
　　181. Muni does not deviate from the truth, The Brahman stood on the
high ground, and
　　　after he had cut off everything, he was indeed called the Quiet One.
　　"Muni does not deviate from the truth": "Those who do not deviate
from the truth; those who do not deviate from the right view; those who
do not deviate from the Eightfold Noble Path. "Muni", Muna is called
wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) Transcendence Behind the net, he
is Muni." Muni does not deviate from the truth.
　　"Brahman stands on the high ground": the high ground is called
immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of allactions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
greed, the cessationof nirvana, and the cessation of all attachments.
"Brahman", the excluded state of the seven dharmas is Brahman...
(Abbreviated in the middle) Those who do not rely on them can be called
Brahman. "The Brahman stands on the high ground": "He stands on the high
ground, on the island, on the refuge, on the refuge, on the refuge, on
the place of fearlessness, on the place of death, on the place of
undeath, on the Nirvana." Standing on the high ground for Brahmins.
　　"After he has cut off everything": "Everything is called the twelve
bases: eye and form... (abbreviated in the middle) mind and dharma.
Because the desire and greed in the inner and outer parts of the self
have been abandoned, the root has been cut off Abandoned, [such as] a
palm tree that has been cut off from its roots, becomes non-existent,
something that will not be born in the future, this situation is that
everything is abandoned, spit, released, abandoned, abandoned. Because
of craving and seeing and slowness is abandoned , the root has been cut
off, [such as] the palm tree that has been cut off from the root,
becomes non-existent, for the future non-born thing, this is also the
case where everything is discarded, spit, released, abandoned, and
broken. The meritorious deeds and immovable deeds are discarded, the
root is cut off, [like] the palm tree whose root has been cut off
becomes non-existent, for the future unborn thing, this is also the case
where everything is abandoned, spit, released, abandoned, Stop
thinking." After thinking about everything for him.
　　"He is indeed called the Quiet One": "He is called, spoken, talked
about, talked about, explained, spoken of as 'The Quiet One, the Quiet
One, the Calm One, the Cooler, the Quieter'. "Because he is indeed
called the Silent One.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"The Muni does not deviate from the truth. The Brahman stands on the
high ground. After he has cut off all thoughts, he
　　　is indeed called the Quiet One.
　　" Being non-dependent,
　　　he is the right mover in the world, where he aspires to nothing.
　　"He is indeed the wise, he is the one who knows the Vedas": "The
'wise' is the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise. 'The
one who knows the Vedas', the Vedas are called among the four Wisdom on
the path... (abbreviated in the middle) is free from greed in all
sensations, and after transcending all Vedas, he is one who knows
Vedas." Because he is indeed a wise man, he is one who knows Vedas.
　　"After knowing the Dharma, one becomes a non-dependant": "After
knowing, after understanding, after measuring, after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying: "All actions are impermanent" after
knowing, after understanding, after measuring , after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying; "All actions are suffering"...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of
dharmas" After knowing, understanding, evaluating, judging,
distinguishing, and clarifying "Those who do not rely on", there are two
kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving and the dependence of
view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the dependence of craving...
(Omitted in the middle) This is the dependence of view. Give up thirst
After the dependence of love; after the dependence of renunciation of
view is the undependent of the eyes... the undependent of the ear... the
undependent of the nose... (abbreviated in the middle) what is seen,
heard, felt, can be known Those who are not dependent on, not attached
to, not stuck in, not attached to, who do not turn their minds toward
(overcoming) of all dharmas. Having been detached, separated, liberated,
and bound, he is restricted by detachment Live with the heart." In order
to know the Dharma, he became a non-reliance.
　　"He is the right mover in the world": "Because lust and greed have
been abandoned in and out of himself, the roots have been cut off,
[like] a palm tree with its roots cut off, it becomes non-existence, for
the future Unborn things, this situation is that he correctly walks,
abides, moves, turns, protects, sustains, and survives in the world....
(Abbreviated in the middle). The root has been cut off, [as] the palm
tree that has been cut off from the root has become non-existent,
something that will not be born in the future, and this is also the case
in which he correctly walks, lives, acts, turns, guards, sustains, and
causes in the world. Survival." Because he is the right mover in the world
　　"He does not desire anything here": "Desire is called craving, and
that is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome greed.
He who says that this craving, craving, has been abandoned, cut off,
calmed down, ceased, cannot arise, is burned by the fire of wisdom, does
not desire anything: Kshatriya, or Brahman, or Vaishya, Either a Sudra,
or a layman, or a monk, or a god, or a man." For here he does not aspire
to anything.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He is indeed a wise man, he is one who knows the Vedas, who knows
the Dhamma and becomes a non-reliance,
　　　he is the one who acts rightly in the world, where he desires
nothing."
　　183. Whoever is here Overpassing desires and defilements that are
difficult to overcome in the world,
　　　he neither worries nor cares: those who have cut off the flow,
those who have no ties.
　　"Every defilement that surpasses desire here, is difficult to
overcome in the world": "Everything is like what, such as effort, such
as arrangement, such as kind, every place that has been reached, every
kshatriya who has the Dharma, or Brahman, or Visha, or Sudra, or layman,
or renunciation, or god, or human. "Desire", there are two kinds of
desire from the verse: desire for things and desire for pollution...
(Abbreviated in the middle) These are It is called the desire for
things... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called the desire for
pollution. "Dyeing", there are seven kinds of tainting: greed, hatred,
ignorance, slowness, Defilement of seeing, defilement of defilement,
defilement of evil deeds. "In the world": in the world of suffering, in
the world of human beings, in the world of gods, in the world of
khandha, in the world of worlds, and in the world of locus. Defilements
that are difficult to overcome in the world", all desires and
defilements: the difficult to overcome, the difficult to transcend, the
difficult to escape, the difficult to pass, the difficult to surpass,
the difficult to pass through, to surpass, to pass, to pass, Overcome."
For those who have overcome desire here, and are difficult to overcome
in the world.
　　"He does not grieve or care": "'He does not grieve what has changed,
or what is changing: 'My eyes have changed.' He does not mourn; 'My
ears... nose... my tongue... my body... my look... my voice... my
smell... my taste... my touch... my home... my group (congregation)
...my abode...my gain...my reputation...my praise...my pleasure...my
clothes...my food...my abode...my sicknesses need things, medical
necessities ...my mother...my father...my brother...my sister...my
son...my daughter...my friend...my colleague...my family...my have The
blood has been changed." He did not mourn, he did not tire, he did not
weep, he did not mourn, he did not go into confusion. ' do not grieve
for him. "Don't worry about", "Don't worry, don't worry, don't consider,
don't contemplate, don't think deeply. Or, not to be born, not to age,
not to die, not to die, not to be reborn. ' to not miss. "For him not to
worry or to miss him.
　　"Those who have cut off the flow, have no bondage": "The flow is
called craving, and that is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. For him, flow, craving is
abandoned, Being cut off... (Abbreviated in the middle) The one who is
burned by the fire of wisdom is called the one who has cut off the flow.
"The one who has no bond", the bondage of greed, the bondage of hatred,
the bondage of delusion, the bondage of slowness, the bondage of seeing
, the fetters of pollution, the fetters of evil deeds, to whomever these
fetters are broken, cut off... (slightly) burnt by the fire of wisdom,
he is called the unbound one." Those who are unbound.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said: " 　　　He does not worry or
care about
　　the defilements that are beyond desire here, and those that are
difficult to get over in the world : those who have cut off the flow,
those who have no ties." 　　184. Please make them wither , any after
that please don't have, 　　　if in the middle you don't hold, you will
live a still life. 　　"Anything that came before, please wither":
"About the past actions, all those pollutions that can generate
pollution, please wither, please wither, please wither, please expand
and wither, please If you are not a seed, please give up, please drive
away, please be an end, please make it come to non-existence.” This is
all that came before, please make it wither. Or, "All the deeds of the
past karma have not yet ripened, please dry them up, please dry them up,
please dry them up, please make them grow and dry up, please don't be
seeds, please give up Please drive it away, please make an end, please
make it non-existent.” This is the same as the previous ones, please
make them wither. 　　"Anything that comes after, please don't have it":
"The next thing is called the future. Regarding future actions, any kind
of greed, any hatred, any delusion, any slowness, any view, any
defilement, any evil deeds, any of these Don't have it, don't make it,
don't make it happen, don't make it happen, don't make it happen, don't
make it happen, please let it go, please let it go, please make it end,
please make it go does not exist." Please don't have for any later.





　　"If you do not grasp what is in the middle": "What is in the middle
is called present form, feeling, perception, mental formations, and
consciousness. With regard to present formations, you will not hold or
grasp by craving and by seeing. , hold, hold, rejoice, seek, hold, hold,
delight, welcome, hold on, hold on to, hold on to, cling to, you will
give up, drive away, end, bring it to non-existence.” For if In the
middle you will not hold.
　　"You will live a quiet life": "The quiet state of greed, the quiet
state, the quiet state, the quiet state of hatred, the quiet state, the
quiet state... (Abbreviated) All unwholesome and contrived states have
passed. Quiet state, Quiet state, Quiet state, Calm state, Extinct state
[, Not burning state], Cooled state, Departed state, Quiet state, Quiet,
Calm What comes down, what cools, what ceases, you will live, dwell,
move, turn, guard, keep alive, keep alive.” For you will lead a still life.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Whatever is before, please wither, and whatever comes after, please
don't have it.
　　　If you don't hold on to what is in the middle, you will live a
still life."
　　185. Of all minds and forms , to him not to be regarded as his own,
　　　and not to be grieved and not to exist, he is indeed not lost in
the world.
　　"Of all mind and matter he is not regarded as his own": "all",
"totally completely, completely in every way, completely without
remainder, whole, this is the word of universal grasping." "everything".
"Name", the four formless aggregates. "Form", the four elements and the
colors created by the four elements. "To him," to an arahant; to one
whose defilements have been exhausted. There are two kinds of ego
attachments to "being taken as one's own": [due to] craving ego
attachments and [due to] seeing ego attachments... (Middle abbreviation)
This is the craving ego attachment... (Middle omission ) This is what I
see. "Among all mind and matter, they are not regarded as his own":
among all mind and matter, what I hold to him are not, do not exist, are
not known, are not discovered, have been discarded , cut off, calmed
down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom. "Because of
all the name and form, he was not regarded as his own.
　　"And he grieves not that which does not exist": "He does not grieve
what has changed, or what is changing: 'My eyes have been changed.' He
does not grieve; my ears...my nose...I tongue... my body... my look...
my voice... my smell... my taste... my touch... my home... my group
(congregation)... my The abode... My gain... (Abbreviated in the middle)
"My blood relative has changed." He does not mourn, he is not tired, he
does not weep, he does not mourn and weep, and he does not come into
confusion." existing.
　　Or, "To be touched, tormented, united by unreal suffering, and
possessed that he does not mourn, does not tire, does not weep, does not
cry with beating his chest, and does not come into confusion." This is
also true and there is no sorrow. Or, "contacted, tortured by eye
diseases... (abbreviated in the middle) contacted, tortured, combined
with the horsefly, mosquito, wind, sun and snake, so that he will not be
sad, tired, weep, cry with beating his chest, and will not be confused.
.” This is also and there is no sorrow that does not exist. Or, "In the
non-existent, the unseen, the undiscovered [thinking]: 'My true past
existed, that mine did not exist now, my true future will exist, and now
I do not get It.' He does not mourn, he is not tired, he does not weep,
he does not weep, he does not beat his breast, and he does not come into
confusion." So also there is no sorrow and no existence.
　　"He is indeed not lost in the world": for him any form such as
feeling, such as feeling, such as thinking, such as action, such as
consciousness "this is mine, or this is someone else's Those who are
held, grasped, attached to, grasped, believed and understood have lost
for him.
　　This is also said:
　　"When carriages, gems, and earrings are lost, when sons and wives
are lost there,
　　　when all wealth is not used, why do you not grieve when you are sad?
　　　Even before all wealth was gone, it was inevitable The one who
dies, and the one who dies afterward gives up all possessions,
　　　the possessions of those who desire desire are very constant, so I
do not worry when I am sad.
　　　The moon increases, fills, disappears, and the sun moves and goes
into extinction (Thailand version),
　　　The mundane dharmas of the enemy have been known to me, so when I
am sad I do not grieve." [Jat.5.1,2,3 verses]
　　To him any form, feeling, thinking, action, etc. Such as "this is
mine, or this is someone else's." Those who are grasped, grasped,
attached to, grasped, believed and understood have nothing to lose to
him. This is also said: "Sramana! Are you happy?" "Friend! What did you
gain?" "Sramana! Are you sad in that case?" "Friend! What did you lose?"
"Sramana! Are you happy and not sad?" "Yes, my friend!"
　　"After a long time, I finally saw the Brahmin of Parinibbana, a monk
who has
　　　no joy and no suffering (no pain, SN.2.18
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=2.18>), who has liberated
himself from the world. Perseverance." Because
　　he does not lose in the world.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Of all things and names, he is not regarded as his own,
　　　and does not have sorrow and does not exist, he is indeed not lost
in the world."
　　186. For him there is no "this is mine," or even What is someone
else's,
　　　he does not find what I hold, he does not grieve "without me."
　　"There is no 'this is mine' for him, or even what is someone
else's": "'for him', for an arahant; "This is mine, or this is someone
else's." grasped, grasped, clinging, grasped They do not exist, they do
not exist, they do not exist, they are not known, they are not
discovered, they are discarded, they are cut off, they are calmed down,
they are stopped, they cannot arise, they are burned by the fire of
wisdom.” This was for him There is no "this is mine," or even what is
someone else's.
　　This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.12.37
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.37>]: "Bhikkhus! This
body is not yours, nor anyone else's, monks! This is old karma, and
should be regarded as created, created by thought, capable of being
felt. Yes. There, monks! The noble discipleShanruli has heard of
Dependent Origination of Mind: "Like this, when this exists, that
exists, and that arises from this. When this does not exist, that does
not exist, and when this does not exist, that does not exist. Extinction
That is eliminated, that is: with ignorance as the condition and there
are all formations (and all formations exist); with the condition of
action and consciousness... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the
collection of this whole aggregate of suffering. But it fades away and
disappears with the absence of ignorance. And there is the cessation of
formations (and the cessation of formations exists); with the cessation
of formations, there is the cessation of consciousness... (abbreviated
in the middle) This is the cessation of this whole aggregate of
suffering."" So also for him there is no "this is mine," or even
anything is someone else's.
　　This is said by the Blessed One: [Sn.5.15- Ni.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni32.htm>]
　　"Please observe that the world is empty, Mo Elaja! Always be mindful
of the ground. After
　　　removing my follower, you can become the one who saves death.
Those who
　　　observe the world like this, the King of Death can't see it."
　　This is also true . There is no "this is mine" or even what is
someone else's for him.
　　This was also said by the Blessed One: [ SN.22.33
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.33>]
　　"Bhikkhus! Whatever is not yours, you must give up! Give it up, and
you will have lasting benefits and happiness. Bhikkhus! And what is not
yours? Bhikkhus. People! What is right and wrong with you, you must
abandon it! If you abandon it, you will have long-term benefits and
happiness; feeling, thinking… It, you will have lasting benefits and
happiness.
　　Bhikkhus! How do you think that in this forest, people will take
grass, fuelwood, branches, leaves, or burn them, or do whatever they
want, you will Thinking like this: 'People take us, or burn us, or do
what they want.'?" Nor does it belong to the true self." "Similarly,
monks! Whatever is not yours, you must give up! Give it up, and you will
have lasting benefits and happiness. Monks! And what is not yours?
Bhikkhus. People! What is right and wrong with you, you must abandon it!
If you abandon it, you will have long-term benefits and happiness;
feeling, thinking… It, you will have long-lasting benefits and
well-being." And so there is no "this is mine" for him, or even what is
someone else's. This is also said:
　　"The arising of pure dharmas, the continuation of pure conduct,
　　　to the one who sees as they are, the village chief! He becomes one
who does not fear.
　　　The world is equal: when seen with wisdom, [Thag.716-717 Half verse]
　　　Nothing else should be hoped for: nothing more than rebirth. '
　　So also for him there is no 'this is mine', or even what is someone
else's. Vajrayana Bhikkhuni said this to Marbosun: [ SN.5.10
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=5.10>]
　　"Why do you imagine 'beings'? Demons! Is that your evil view?
　　　This is a mere accumulation of actions, and no beings are
discovered here
　　　. The rise of karma, like this, has the words of a car, and
　　　similarly, when there are various aggregates, there is the
recognition of "beings".
　　　There is only the arising of suffering, the persistence and
disappearance of suffering, and
　　　there is no other than the arising of suffering, no There is
nothing but the cessation of suffering."
　　So there is no "this is mine" for him, or even what is the other's.
This is also said by the Blessed One: [ SN.35.246
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.246>]
　　"Similarly, bhikkhus! Bhikkhus search for materiality until all its
interests are reached; feeling...thinking...action...seeking
consciousness until all its interests are reached. As far as he can
reach, when he searches for materiality, until the interesting place of
all materiality is reached; feeling...thinking...action...searches for
consciousness until the interesting place of all consciousness is
reached. ', or 'I am', for him, no longer exists." So also for him there
is no 'this is mine', or even what is someone else's.
　　The Venerable Ananda said this to the World Honored One: "It is
called: 'The world is empty, the world is empty', great virtue! What is
called 'The world is empty'?" Therefore, it is called "the world is
empty". Ananda! What is emptiness in terms of me or what I am? Ananda!
The eye is empty in terms of me or what I am, form [in terms of me or
what I am] is emptiness, and eye-consciousness [in terms of me or what I
am] is emptiness. What I am] is emptiness, and eye-contact [with me or
what I am] is emptiness, that is, [everything] that arises with
eye-contact as a condition, whether it is pleasant, painful, or neither
painful nor pleasant, is also [with me or what I am] Empty. Ear is
empty... Sound is empty... Nose is empty... Smell is empty... Tongue is
empty... Smell is empty... Body is empty... Touch is empty... Mind is
empty... Dhamma Empty... Consciousness is emptiness... Mind-contact is
emptiness, that is, [everything] that arises with mind-contact as a
condition, whether pleasant, painful, neither painful nor unpleasant, is
also empty of me or what I am. Ananda! Because As I or what I am is
emptiness, it is called 'the world is emptiness'." So also for him there
is no 'this is mine', or even what is other's.
　　"He didn't find what I was attached to": "'I am attached', there are
two kinds of self-attachment: [because of] craving and [because] of my
attachment... (Abbreviated) This is My attachment to craving...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is my attachment to seeing. After I
give up my attachment to craving, and after I get rid of my attachment
to seeing, it is what I have not found, and I have not found. those who
did not arrive, those who did not receive.” Because he did not discover
what I was holding.
　　"He does not grieve 'without me'": "He does not grieve what has
changed, or what is changing: 'My eyes have been changed.' He does not
grieve; my ears... (omitted)" My relatives have been changed.' He does
not mourn, he does not tire, he does not weep, he does not mourn, he
does not cry, he does not come into confusion." For him he does not
grieve "without me."
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"For him there is no 'this is mine', or even what is another's,
　　　he does not discover what I hold, he does not grieve 'that is not
mine'."
　　187. No Jealousy Seeing, unattached, undisturbed, equal everywhere,
　　　I speak of that benefit, when asked about the unshakable.
　　"Unscrupulous, unacquisitive, undisturbed, equal everywhere": "What
is jealous? Here, a certain type of person is a jealous person who
benefits, respects, respects, respects, respects others, Salute,
reverence, envy, envy (indignity, MN.135
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=135>), envy, whatever is
like this, envy, envy, envy, path of envy, state of envy, envy, path of
envy, state of envy, this is called envy For him, this jealousy has been
abandoned and cut off... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who are
burned by the fire of wisdom are called "the person without envy".
Craving, that is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the
root of greed is unwholesome. For him, this greed is abandoned, cut
off... (About the middle) Those who are burned by the fire of wisdom, he
is called a greedy without following , he is not greedy in form; in
sound... (abbreviated in the middle) in what he sees, hears, feels, and
can be known, he is not greedy, not bound, not obsessed, and innocent
Those who have passed away, those who have given up greed, those who
have no greed, those who have given up greed, those who have eliminated
greed, those who have been freed from greed, those who have given up
greed, those who have given up craving, those who have abandoned greed,
those who have no greed, Those who have given up greed, those who have
eliminated greed, those who have been freed from greed, those who have
given up greed, those who have given up greed, those who have not been
hungry, those who have been extinguished, those who have become cool,
those who feel happiness, and those who have regarded themselves as
Brahman. Dwelling with the living." For those without envy, without
craving.
　　"Undisturbed, equal everywhere": "Disturbance is called craving,
which is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome
greed. For him this craving has been abandoned, cut off ... (Abbreviated
in the middle) Those who are burnt by the fire of wisdom are called
undisturbed. "With the state of abandonment of disturbance as
undisturbed, when he gets it, he does not shake; when he does not get
it, he does not shake; when [ He does not waver when he has a
reputation; he does not waver when he has no reputation; he does not
waver when he is praised; he does not waver when he is reprimanded; he
does not waver when he is happy; Not shaking, not moving, not trembling,
not trembling, not very trembling." It is not disturbed. "Equal in all
places", all are called the twelve senses: eye and form... (abbreviated)
Intention and Dhamma Because the desire and greed in the inner and outer
parts of the self have been abandoned, the root has been cut off, [such
as] the palm tree whose root has been cut off, has become non-existent,
and is not born in the future, he is called in all things is equal
everywhere. He is like that everywhere, neutral everywhere, peaceful
everywhere.” Undisturbed, equal everywhere.
　　"I speak of that benefit, when asked about the unshakable": "When
questioned; questioned; asked; requested; made clear and unshakable, I
speak of these four benefits: he is unshakable. The jealous, the
unflinching, the undisturbed, the equal everywhere, I tell, I explain...
(abbreviated), I explain." Tell that benefit for me, when asked about
the unshakable.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Those who are not jealous, who are not craving, who are
undisturbed, who are equal everywhere,
　　　I speak of that benefit, when asked about the unshakable."
　　188. The undisturbed, the knowing. , he did nothing
　　　, he was freed from his efforts, and he saw security everywhere.
　　"One who does not disturb, one who understands": "Disturbance is
called craving, which is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. For him this craving has been abandoned, cut off...
(Abbreviated in the middle) Those who are burned by the fire of wisdom
are called the undisturbed ones. "The undisturbed person is the one who
has given up the disturbance. When he gets it, he does not shake; when
he does not get it, he does not shake; He does not waver when he is
honored; he does not waver when he has no reputation; he does not waver
when he is praised; he does not waver when he is reprimanded; he does
not waver when he is happy; Shaking, not moving, not trembling, not
trembling, not very trembling.” For the undisturbed one. The “knower”,
he knows, knows, knows, knows, and penetrates. “All actions are
impermanent. ”: He knows, understands, knows, definitely knows, and
penetrates. “All deeds are suffering”... (Abbreviated in the middle)
“Any collection of dharmas is cessation of dharmas” He knows,
understands, and penetrates Knowing, knowing, and permeating.” For those
who do not disturb, those who understand.
　　"He did nothing": "The act is called the virtuous, the unfortunate,
and the immovable. Since the virtuous, the unfortunate, and the
immovable are discarded, the root has been cut off, [as in] a palm tree
with its roots cut off. to become non-existent, to be non-existent, to
be non-existent, not to be known, not to be discovered, to be abandoned,
to be cut off, to be calmed down, to cease, to be unable to arise, to be
burned by the fire of wisdom.” Nothing for him.
　　"Having been freed from effort": "Effort is called virtuous,
non-blessed, and immovable. Because virtuous, unblessed, and immovable
are discarded, the root has been severed, [as in] a palm that has been
cut off from its roots. A tree, becoming non-existent, a thing that will
not be born in the future, this situation should have been removed from
the situation about trying to separate, abstain, abstain, renounce,
leave, liberate, and shackle, and he is limited by renunciation. Live in
the heart." To be free from effort.
　　"He sees peace everywhere": "greed is the author of fear, hatred is
the author of fear, delusion is the author of fear... (Abbreviated)
Pollution is the author of fear. The author of greed and fear has been
abandoned. ... (Abridged) The state in which the author of the fear of
pollution has been abandoned, he sees peace everywhere, no fear
everywhere, no disaster everywhere, no danger everywhere, no danger
everywhere. See everywhere without disaster, see everywhere without
oppression." For He saw peace everywhere.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He who does not disturb, who understands, does nothing,
　　　is freed from effort, and sees stability everywhere."
　　189. Among the same, among the inferior, and among the excellent
Nidu would not say that
　　　he is a quiet person, a stingy person, and he does not take it or
refuse it. [Like this, the World Honored One (saying)]
　　"Among the same, the inferior, and the excellent, Muni will not
speak": "'Muni', Muni is called wisdom... Then he is Muni. "I am the
winner," or "I am the equal," or "I am the inferior." He doesn't say, he
doesn't talk, he doesn't talk, he doesn't explain, he doesn't speak." ,
Among the inferior, and among the excellent, Muni will not speak.
　　"He is the one who is quiet, who has been freed from miserliness":
"The one who is quiet, "the one whose greed has been quieted, the one
who has been calmed is quiet, hatred... (abbreviated in the middle)
delusion...all unwholesome and artificial are already quiet, have been
Quiet state, calmed state, extinguished state, cooled state, departed
state, rested state is the still, the still, the calm, the cooled, the
still.” is the still. “He There are five kinds of stinginess:
[attachment to] stinginess in the place of residence... (abbreviated in
the middle), this is called stingy. For him this stingy has been
abandoned, cut off... (abbreviated in the middle) ) Those who are burnt
by the fire of wisdom are called those who have left stingy, who have
ceased stinginess, who have given up stinginess, who have spit out
stinginess, who have released stingy, who have given up stinginess, and
who have given up their minds about stinginess.” He is the quiet one,
the one who has left the stingy.
　　"He doesn't take, doesn't reject. [The World Honored One (says)]":
"He doesn't take", he doesn't take, doesn't cling, doesn't hold, doesn't
grasp, doesn't cling to, receives... Thinking... doing... knowing...
interest... rebirth... rebirth... having (existing)... reincarnation...
samsara does not take, hold, hold, hold, or cling to. "Because he
doesn't take it. "Do not refuse", he does not give up, does not drive
away, does not end, does not make it go to non-existence, feels...
thinks... acts... knows... interest... rebirth... rebirth... has
(existence) ... samsara ... samsara he does not give up, does not drive
away, does not end, does not make it go to non-existence. "World Honored
One", "Synonym of Respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli
(pseudonym) who testified, that is, the World Honored One."
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said:
　　"Among the same, among the inferior, and among the excellent, Muni
will not speak. ,
　　　he is the one who is still, the one who has left stinginess, he
does not take, he does not reject. [Like this, the Blessed One (saying)]"
　　The fifteenth [Completed] of the Explanation of the Sutra of the One
Who Takes the Stick.


Excerpts:
　1. The terror that the person who takes the stick (three mouths, four
intentions, three) creates for himself: punishment and hell.
　2. I want to find a place to live (shelter), but I don't see any that
are not occupied: young / disease-free / born / gained / name / title /
happy to be old / sick / dead / lost / nameless / blame / suffering (in
the end all hostile ) possession.
　3. Those who are not happy (= the heart is
greedy/hatred/delusional/slow/see/worry/doubt) run around (samsara).
　4. Those with Nirvana’s mind should not be keen on worldly
learning/staying very slowly/living with ease/being carried away by
lies/making love/rejoicing in the past/loving the new/disappearing
sorrows/depending on hooks Those who should be truthful/not arrogant
(all-knowing arrogance)/not deceitful/abandoning words/not angry/abstain
from arbitrariness, conquer sleep, laziness and sullenness.
　5. Please make it wither before, and please don't have it after. If
you can't hold the middle, you will live a quiet life.
　6. In life, there is only the arising/existence/disappearance of
suffering, and nothing else.
　12/15/2020 15:46
