Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
16. Explanation of the Sariputta Sutra
　　Second of the Sariputta Sutra will say:
　　190. [Spiritual Sariputta like this:] I have never seen it before,
or no one has heard it,
　　　the master of such a witty saying: From The masters who came from
the sky.
　　"I did not see before this": "Before this, for me, I had not seen
the Blessed One with these [pairs] of eyes, this self: When I settled
down in the rainy season, I was surrounded by a group of gods and
descended down the stairs made of gemstones to scattered the city. This
was a sight I had never seen before." I had never seen it before.
　　"[Like this Venerable Shariputra]": "'Like this', the continuation
of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences;
the combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, 'like this'. "Venerable", this is the language of love,
honor, respectful, and obedient, and is called "The Venerable." , words,
phrases, titles.” as [Sariputta like this].
　　"Or not heard by anyone": "'No' is negative. 'Or', the continuation
of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences;
the combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, which is " Or'. 'Anyone', Kshatriya, or Brahmin, or Vaisha,
or Sudra, or layman, or monk, or god, or man." For or no what anyone hears.
　　"The master of such witty words": "'Such witty words, nice words,
loving words, pleasant words, [such as] the beautiful voice of a bell
roar. Also, the voice of the Blessed One from the mouth has eight
branches: comprehensible, What can be understood, beautiful, elegant,
concise, uncluttered, deep, and eloquent, the Blessed One makes the
crowd known with his voice, and his voice is not outside the crowd, and
the Blessed One is like the voice of Brahma. , like the beautiful voice
of a beautiful bird.” For such a witty saying.
　　"Master", "The World-Honored One is the master, the leader of the
caravan, as the leader of the caravan makes all living beings pass
through the danger zone: make them pass through the danger zone of
thieves, make them pass through the danger zone of beasts, and make them
pass through the danger zone of famine. , to make it pass through the
waterless danger zone, he makes it come out, make it cross, make it
pass, and make it reach the ultimate place of stability. In the same
way, the World Honored One is the leader of the caravan, making all
living beings pass through the danger zone: the danger zone of life, the
danger zone of old age, the danger zone of sickness... (the middle
abbreviated) the danger zone of death... Make it go through the danger
zone of grief, sorrow, suffering, worry and despair, make it pass
through the danger zone of greed, the danger zone of hatred... the
danger zone of delusion... the danger zone of slowness... the danger
zone of seeing... The danger zone of pollution... let him go through the
danger zone of evil deeds, let him pass through the jungle of greed, the
jungle of hatred... the jungle of delusion... the jungle of slowness...
the jungle of seeing... the jungle of pollution... the To cross the
jungle of evil deeds, he causes it to come out, to transcend it, to pass
it through, and to bring it to peace, immortality, nirvana. ' Thus is
the Blessed One as the leader of the caravan.
　　Or, "The Blessed One is the one who guides, who subdues, who
comforts, who informs, who makes him consider, who makes him see, and
who makes him clear. 』 This is also the World Honored as the leader of
the caravan.
　　Or, "The World-Honored One is the one who arises the unborn Tao, the
one who brings the unborn Tao, the one who proclaims the Tao; the one
who knows the Tao, the one who knows the Tao, the one who knows the Tao,
great virtue! Also, now the disciples live as followers of the Tao, and
later they will be those who possess it. 』 This is also the World
Honored as the leader of the caravan. "For the master of such witty words.
　　"The lords from Tusita": ""After the World-Honored One died from
Tusita, he entered the womb with mindfulness and understanding.' These
are the lords from Tusita.
　　Or, "The gods are called Satisfied, they are the contented, the good
contented, the contented, the joyful, the born joyful and the joyful,
who came to be the lord of the heavens. ' This is also the lord from
Tusita. Or, "Arahants are called contented ones, they are contented
ones, good contented ones, satisfied ones, full-minded ones, who come to
be the lord of the Arahants. ' This is also the lord from Tusita.
"Lords", the World-Honored One is the Lords, "The teacher of the group"
is the Lord, the "Master of the group" is the Lord, "He takes care of
the group" is the Lord, "He teaches the group" is the Lord, "He teaches
the group" "The group" is the master, "He fearlessly goes to see the
group" is the master, "The group wants to listen, listen with his ears,
and understand with his heart" is the master, "After the group appears
unwholesome, he establishes it in the good. ' For the lord, [he] is the
lord of the monks (group), the lord of the nuns, the lord of the
Upasaka, the lord of the Upasians, the lord of the kings, They belong to
the Kshatriyas...the Brahmins...the Vaishas...the Sudras...the
gods...the masters of the Brahmas, the masters of the sanghas, the
groups teacher. "Come", arrived, fully arrived, has fully arrived
(Thailand version) Sange city. ' for the lords who came from Tusita.
　　Because of that, the Venerable Sariputta said:
　　"[Like this, Venerable Sariputta:] I have never seen, or no one has
heard, before
　　　this master of wit: Lords from Tusita."
　　191 .In the world including the gods, whoever has eyes is seen, and
　　　after driving away all darkness, finds joy alone.
　　"In the world that includes the gods": "In the world that includes
the gods, the demons, and the Brahman; in the world that includes the
ascetics and Brahmins, and the generation that includes the gods and
humans." is in the world that includes the gods.
　　"Those who have eyes are seen": "'When the Blessed One was seated
under the yellow stone of the day tree in the thirty-three-day domain,
teaching the Dharma, as the gods saw, the human beings saw; as the human
saw, the gods also saw, as the beings saw If the gods see it, they are
seen by the human beings; if they are seen by the human beings, they are
also seen by the gods.” This means that those who have eyes are seen.
Those who are not at rest are seen as being at peace; those who are not
at rest are regarded as being at rest; those who are not at Nirvana are
regarded as being at rest. Those who have reached Nirvana, etc.
　　"A false earring made of clay, a half-cent of copper covered with
gold, covered with
　　　followers and walking in the world, impure on the inside,
beautiful on the outside." [ SN.3.11
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=3.11>]
　　Blessed One Not seen like this. The Blessed One is seen as factual,
truthful, true, correct, unreversed, and the reality has been regulated
as having been conditioned; Those who are seen [as] have ceased, etc.;
those who have reached Nirvana are seen [as] those who have reached
Nibbāna, etc. The Buddha and the World Honored One do not create
behaviors, but those with aspirations. ' So also those who have eyes are
seen.
　　Or, "The Blessed One has a clear voice, reaching the admiration of
the voice of praise: in the realm of the dragon, the realm of the
Garuda, the realm of the yaksha, the realm of the asura, the realm of
the Gandharva, the realm of the great king, the realm of the Indra, The
realm of Brahma, the realm of the gods, like this, like that, and more
since then. ' So also those who have eyes are seen.
　　Or, the World-Honored One possesses the ten powers, the four
fearlessness, the four unhindered understanding, the six supernatural
powers, the six Buddha-dharmas, majesty, strength, virtue, vitality, and
wisdom. He is seen, known, and known.
　　"In the distance the good people appear, like the Himalayas, and
　　　the bad people are not seen here, like arrows thrown at night. 』
[Dhp. 21, 304 verses] In
　　this way also those who have eyes are seen.
　　"Those with eyes", the World-Honored One regards five eyes as those
with eyes: the eyes of the flesh are those with eyes, the eyes of heaven
are also those with eyes, the eyes of wisdom are also those with eyes,
the eyes of Buddha are also those with eyes, and all eyes are those with
eyes .
　　How does the Blessed One use the naked eye as the one who has eyes?
There are five colors in the eyes of the Blessed One: cyan, yellow, red,
black, and white. The eye hair of the Blessed One, where the eye hair
resides, is blue, very blue, upright, beautiful, like a linen flower
(Sri Lankan version), and the rest are yellow, very yellow, golden,
upright, Beautiful, equivalent to the sagebrush. The two eyes of the
Blessed One are red, very red, straight, beautiful, like a cochineal,
and in the middle they are black, very dark, not coarse, moist,
straight, beautiful, and wet Sapin's of Sapindus, the others are white,
extremely white, white, yellow-white, upright, beautiful, and equal to
Taibaixing. With the physical eyes of the Blessed One, who belonged to
the natural individual and was born of the previous good deeds, he sees
everything for a yojan day and night, even when there are four elements
of darkness: the sunset, the black side [moon] busa, the dense forest,
and the great evil. The black cloud of Nimbus (Thailand version)
appears. In this way, when the darkness of the four branches is present,
he also sees everything for a yojan day and night. No walls, or
shutters, or enclosures, or mountains, or forests, or groves were
obstacles to his vision of form and form. If a sesame seed is marked and
placed in a cart full of sesame seeds, he can select that sesame seed.
In this way, the natural eye of the Blessed One is pure and pure, and
the Blessed One takes the physical eye as an eye.
　　How does the Blessed One take the eyes of the heavens as those who
have eyes? The World-Honored One sees, with a pure, celestial eye that
surpasses ordinary human beings, when sentient beings die and rebirth,
in inferior, wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate, and unfortunate, he
knows that all living beings circulate according to their karma:
"Respected teachers! Indeed, these beings have evil deeds in the body,
evil deeds in speech, and evil deeds in the mind. They are those who
rebuke the saints, those who have wrong views, and those who hold wrong
views. They disintegrate their bodies and have been reborn in the world
of misery, in the evil realms, Nether, hell, respected teachers! Or,
these beings have good deeds of body, good speech, and good deeds of
mind. They are those who do not rebuke the saints, those who have right
views, and those who hold right views. They have been reborn,skyline. '
In this way, with a pure, celestial eye that transcends ordinary people,
when living beings die, when they are reborn, whether they are inferior,
wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate or unfortunate, they know that all
living beings circulate according to their karma. When he wishes, the
Blessed One can see one world, two worlds, three worlds, four worlds,
five worlds, and ten worlds. world, I can see twenty world worlds, I can
see thirty world worlds, I can see forty world worlds, I can see fifty
world worlds, I can see a hundred world worlds, and I can see These
thousand small worlds can also see these two thousand middle worlds, and
also these three thousand great thousand worlds (Sri Lankan version) [
AN.3.81 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.81>]. Or if he
wants to, he can see. In this way, the celestial eyes of the World
Honored One are all pure, and the World Honored One regards the
celestial eyes as those who have eyes.
　　How does the World Honored One regard the Wisdom Eye as the Eyed
One? The World-Honored One is the Great Wisdom, the Enlightened Wisdom,
the Great Wisdom, the Quick Wisdom, the Beneficial Wisdom, the
Insightful Wisdom, the Skilled One of the Kinds of Wisdom, the One Who
Has Developed Wisdom, the One Who Has Achieved the Unhindered
Understanding, the One Who Has Achieved the Four Fearless, One who has
ten powers, one who is like an ox, one who is like a lion, one who is
wise, one who can afford it, one who is infinitely wise, one who is
brilliant, one who is famous, one who is rich, one who is very rich, one
who is rich, one who guides, one who subdues , the one who comforts, the
one who informs, the one who makes it consider, the one who makes it
see, the one who makes it clear, that Blessed One is indeed the one who
arises without the path, the one who makes the unborn path, the
proclaimer who doesn't proclaim the path The one who knows the Tao, the
one who knows the Tao, the one who knows the Tao, the great virtue!
Also, now the disciples live as followers of the Tao, and later they
will be those who possess it.
　　The Blessed One is indeed the knower, he knows, the seer, he sees;
the eye-born, the wisdom-born, the Dharma-born, the Brahma-born, the
interpreter, the preacher, the guide of justice , Immortal giver, Dharma
King, Tathagata, there is none that the World-Honored One does not know,
does not see, does not know, does not testify, and does not touch with
wisdom, the past, the future, and the present come to the Buddha with
all the signs of all dharmas in the past, the future, and the present.
In the realm of the Blessed One's wisdom door, any [dhamma] that is
called to be inferred can be known: one's own, or another's, or both, or
in the present life, or in the next, or both. The truth, or the deep
truth, or the hidden truth, or the secret truth, or the truth that
should be led to inference, or the truth that has been led to be
determined, or the truth of the faultless, or the truth of the
unsullied, or the truth of the clear truth, or the truth of the highest
interest Righteousness, everything revolves in the Buddha's wisdom.
　　The wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One about the past is
unobstructed; [Buddha, World-Honored] wisdom about the future is
unobstructed; the wisdom about the present is unobstructed; all bodily
actions follow the wisdom of the Buddha and World-Honored One; …All
mental karma follows the wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One,
and all that should be guided and deduced is what wisdom should reach;
all wisdom that should be reached is what should be guided and inferred,
and the ultimate goal of what should be guided and inferred is Wisdom;
the ultimate of wisdom is what should be guided in inference, beyond
what should be guided inference, wisdom does not turn; beyond wisdom,
there is no way to be guided in inference, these dharmas live in mutual
limitation, such as two boxes covered by In full contact, the lower lid
does not pass over the upper; the upper lid does not pass over the
lower, which is limited to each other. [Similarly,] all that is to be
led to inference is that of wisdom; all that is to be of wisdom is that
to be led to infer, and the ultimate of that to be led to inference is
wisdom; the ultimate of wisdom is to be to be What guides inferences is
beyond the wisdom that should be guided in inferences; there is no way
beyond wisdom that should be guided in inferences. These dharmas are
limited to each other.
　　The wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One arises in all
dharmas, and all dharmas belong to the turning, hope, intention, and
arising minds of the Buddha and the World-Honored One. Knowing the
intentions of all sentient beings, knowing the underlying trends of
afflictions, knowing behaviors, knowing the winning solution
(aspiration), knowing about less dusty, more dusty; Those who teach,
those who are difficult to teach; all beings who are capable and
incapable, including the world of heaven, demons, and Brahmans;
including ascetic and brahmins, including the generations of gods and
humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom.
　　Just as any fish, turtles, and even boat-swallowing fishes revolve
in the ocean, similarly, the worlds including gods, demons, and
Brahmans, as well as the ascetic and brahmins, including the generations
of gods and humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom. Like any bird,
including the Garuda of the great descendants of Weina, it turns around
in the void field. Likewise, those who [have] the same wisdom as
Shariputra are also revolving in the field of Buddha's wisdom. The
wisdom of the Buddha pervades and transcends the wisdom of heaven and
man. All those wise Kshatriyas, wise Brahmins, wise housekeepers, wise
ascetics, wise dissenters, shrewd breakers who want to do evil deeds in
a wise manner, they are ready The questions were later seen by the
Tathagata, and then they asked about the hidden and secret [Rhythm].
Those questions were discussed and answered by the World Honored One
with reasons, but those who had just abandoned them became the
[disciples] of the World Honored One. 』Glory. The World-Honored One
thus regards the eyes of wisdom as those who have eyes.
　　How did the World-Honored One regard the Buddha's eyes as those who
have eyes? When the World-Honored One observes the world with the eyes
of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt; those with sharp
roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds and those with
bad deeds; those who are easy to teach and those that are difficult to
teach; some who live and see in other worlds. Sins and horrors, other
beings who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds. Just
like in the green lotus pond, red lotus pond, and white lotus pond, some
green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in water, grow in
water, depend on the water surface, and grow underwater; some green
lotus, red lotus, and white lotus grow in water and grow in water. In
the water, they stand at the same height as the surface of the water;
some green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in the water, grow
in the water, and rise above the water surface to stand without being
stained by the water. Similarly, when the World-Honored One observes the
world with the eyes of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt;
those with sharp roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds
and those with bad deeds; The sins and horrors of other worlds, and
others who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds [DN.14
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, para. 69]. The World
Honored One knows: "This person is a greedy person, this person is an
aggressor, this person is an ignorant person, this person is a seeker,
this person is a believer, this person is a wise person. ' The Blessed
One explained the impurity to those who practice greed. The Blessed One
informs the practice of loving-kindness to those who are averse. The
World-Honored One settled the delusional person in recitation,
inquiring, listening to the Dharma at the right time, discussing the
Dharma at the right time, and living with the teacher. The World-Honored
One told those who were seeking to breathe in and out of breath. The
World-Honored One informs believers about the signs of self-confidence:
the good enlightenment of the Buddha, the good nature of the Dharma, the
good practice of the Sangha and their own precepts. The World-Honored
One told those who practiced Vipassana the signs of vipassana: the signs
of impermanence, the signs of ascetic practices, and the signs of non-self.
　　"As standing on the top of a rocky mountain, one can see all the
people,
　　　similarly, those who are wise and all-eyed climb up the tall
buildings made by the Dharma, and those
　　　who have been separated from sorrow look at those who have fallen
into sorrow and are conquered by birth and old age.
　　　Please get up! hero! The victor on the battlefield! The leader of
the caravan, the debt-free walk in the world, World Honored One
　　　! Please teach the law! There will be (will) those who know. 』[
DN.14 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, paragraph 70]
The World-Honored One
　　thus regards the Buddha's eyes as those who have eyes.
　　How does the Blessed One regard all eyes as those who have eyes? All
eyes are called the state wisdom of all knowing. The Blessed One has,
fully has, attained, fully attained, fully attained, fully attained,
possessing the state knowledge of all knowing.
　　"There is nothing unseen here (in this world) for him, and nothing
is known and cannot be known, and
　　　he witnesses that everything that exists should be led to
inference, that the Tathagata is the eye of all. [ Ps.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>, paragraph 121]" The
　　Blessed One thus regards all eyes as those who have eyes. ' for
those who have eyes to be seen.
　　"After driving away all darkness": "All the darkness of greed, the
darkness of hatred, the darkness of ignorance, the darkness of slowness,
the darkness of seeing, the darkness of pollution, the darkness of evil
deeds, the blindness of action, the blindness of eyes, the darkness of
wisdom, the darkness of wisdom The annihilation, the afflicted
companion, does not lead to Nibbāna, after he has eliminated, after
removal, after abandonment, after abandonment, after renunciation, after
completion, after he has brought it to non-existence.” After driving
away all darkness.
　　"To be alone in happiness": ""Alone," the Blessed One is alone in
the name of renunciation, alone in the righteousness of being without a
partner, alone in the righteousness of renunciation of craving, "always
free from greed", and "always free from hatred." Alone, "always free
from delusion" is alone, "always free from pollution" is alone, "has
passed the path withoutfork in the road " is alone, "has attained full
enlightenment and supreme enlightenment" is alone
　　. For being alone? "When the Blessed One was young, the black-haired
youth possessed the happiness of youth, and in the early stages of life,
even if the parents were reluctant, tearful, weeping, and lamenting,
they still abandoned their kinship and cut off everything. Obstacles at
home, obstacles in cutting off children and wives, obstacles in cutting
off relatives, obstacles in cutting off friends, obstacles in cutting
off storage, after shaving off hair and beards, after wrapping in
cassocks, and becoming a homeless person from being a monk at home,
entering a state of nothingness Then he walks, lives, moves, turns
around, protects, keeps alive, and lives.” This is how the Blessed One
is alone in the name of being ordained.
　　How can the Blessed One be alone in the righteousness of being
without a partner? Barren forests, frontier dwellings (reclining
places): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people, living alone,
suitable for sitting alone; he walks alone, walks alone, stands alone,
sits alone, sleeps alone enter the village alone for the sake of alms,
go forward alone, return alone, sit alone in a quiet place, walk alone,
walk alone, dwell, move, turn around, guard, keep alive, keep alive.”
The righteousness of a partner is alone.
　　How can the World-Honored One regard the renunciation of craving and
abandoning the righteousness as being alone? He is so alone and without
a partner. He should live in unrelenting, enthusiastic, self-effort,
under the Bodhi tree by the Niren River, with great diligence,
Diligently, after destroying the kinsmen of demons, evil demons, and
loose people who are accompanied by an army, the netted, strong-flowing,
entangled cravings he renounces, drives away, ends, and makes it go to
non-existence.
　　"A person who desires to be a partner has been in samsara for a long
time, and
　　　in this state and other states, he does not go beyond samsara.
　　　Knowing this kind of trouble: craving is the origin of suffering,
　　　and without craving and attachment, a bhikkhu should walk
mindfully. 』[ It.15
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=15>/Sn.3.12, 745-746 verses]
　　In this way the Blessed One takes the renunciation of craving to be
alone.
　　How is it that the Blessed One takes "always free from greed" as his
own? "Let one of the states of renunciation of greed go toward
liberation from greed" as independence, "with one of the states of
renunciation of hatred toward liberation from hatred" as independence,
"with one of the states of renunciation of delusion toward liberation
from delusion" as independence, "with one of the states of renunciation
of ignorance toward liberation from delusion", One of the disconnected
states is to be unpolluted" as alone. [In this way, the Blessed One
takes "always free from greed" as his own. ]
　　How is it that the Blessed One has "passed the path without fork in
the road" to be alone? The path of no fork in the road is called the
four mindfulness, the four righteous efforts, the four spiritual feet,
the five faculties, the five powers, the seven factors of enlightenment,
and the eight noble paths.
　　"Those who see the extinction of life, those who have pity, know the
path without fork in the road,
　　　by which they crossed the storm before, and whatsoever they will
pass, and now pass through (to be and now). 』[ SN.47.18
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=47.18>] In
　　this way the Blessed One "has passed the path without fork in the
road" for himself.
　　What does the World-Honored One mean by "alone who has attained full
enlightenment and the supreme enlightenment" as being alone?
Enlightenment is called wisdom in the four realms, wisdom root, wisdom
power, dharma-choosing enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana,
and right view. With that awareness, the World-Honored One realizes that
"all actions are impermanent"; "all actions are suffering"; "all dharmas
are selflessness"; "there are paths of actions due to ignorance"; "these
are afflictions"”… (Abbreviated in the middle): “This is the path
leading to the leakage”; “These dharmas should be universally known”…
They should be discarded… They should be practiced… “[These dharmas]
should be witnessed”; Feel the arising, cessation, bliss, trouble, and
renunciation of the six points of contact; feel the origin, cessation,
bliss, trouble, and renunciation of the five aggregates of clinging;
feel the arising, cessation of the four elements , Pleasure, trouble,
renunciation; feel that "any kind of gathering is the cessation of the
law".
　　Or, whatever should be realized, should be realized, should be
awakened, should be realized, should be realized, should be touched,
should be attested, everything is realized by that awareness. , Sudden
awareness, awakening, full awareness, universal awareness, realization,
touch, and testimony. In this way, the Blessed One "has achieved full
enlightenment by himself" as being alone.
　　"Joyful", "joy", the joy of detachment, the joy of separation, the
joy of tranquility, the joy of enlightenment he attains, reaches,
realizes, touches, bears witness. "For the joy of being alone.
　　Because of that, the Venerable Sariputta said,
　　"In the world, including the gods, there are those who have eyes who
are seen, and who have
　　　driven away all darkness, and find joy alone."
　　192. The one who is enlightened, who is not dependent, who is like
that, The non-tricksters, the ones who come to the masters,
　　　here belong to the many who are bound, and those in need come with
questions.
　　"The one who is enlightened, the one who does not depend, who is
like that": "The one who is enlightened (Buddha), that is the one who is
the Blessed One, the one who exists, the one who has no teacher, who has
realized enlightenment by himself in the Dhamma that he has never heard
before. The truth is there to reach the state of all knowledge and the
state of freedom in terms of power. "Awakened", what is the meaning of
the enlightened one? The state of all knowing is the enlightened one,
the state of all seeing is the enlightened one, the state of not being
led by others is the enlightened one, the one that flows out of all
kinds is the enlightened one, and the one who has exhausted all the
influxes is named the enlightened one. , those who have been given names
without following afflictions are the enlightened ones, the "always free
from greed" are the enlightened ones, the "always free from hatred" are
the enlightened ones, the "always free from delusion" are the
enlightened ones, and the "always free from pollution" are the
enlightened ones For the enlightened one, "the one who has passed the
path without fork in the road" is the enlightened one, "the one who
realizes the supreme enlightenment alone" is the enlightened one, and
the state of not being killed and the state of realizing it is the
enlightened one." Awakened One', "This [name] was not given (made) by a
mother; not by a father; not by a brother; not by a sister; not by a
friend; not by a kin; What is given by ascetic and Brahmin; what is not
given by God, this is the ultimate liberation of the Buddha and the
World-Honored One: under the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition
of all knowledge and wisdom, and the attestation (pseudonym), that is,
the enlightened one.” That is the enlightened one. "Those who do not
rely on", there are two kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving
and the dependence of view. What is the dependence of craving? Scope,
being taken as a boundary, clinging to, being taken as one's own: this
is mine, this is mine, so much is mine, and this scope is mine; my look,
voice, Smell, taste, touch, things spread on the ground, coats, maids
and servants, goats and sheep, chickens and pigs, elephants, cattle and
horses, mules, fields, houses, gold, gold coins, villages, towns, kings
All cities , places, repositories, warehouses, all the earth, which
because of craving takes them as their own, all the one hundred and
eight currents of craving [ AN.4.199
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.199>] reach, this is
the dependence of craving.
　　What is Seeing Dependence? There are twenty bases with body views,
ten bases with wrong views, ten bases with marginal views, such views,
evil views, jungle views, desert views, distorted views, wavering views,
grasping, accepting, clinging, clinging to the view of bondage, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the wrong way, the
grasping of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grasping of the reverse
(viparīta), the reverse (vipallāsa) The grasp of evil, the grasp of
evil, the grasp of what is not real [considered] as real, all come to
the reach of the sixty-two evil views, which are the dependencies of view.
　　"For the Buddha and the World-Honored One, the dependence of craving
has been abandoned, the dependence of view has been abandoned, and the
dependence of craving has been abandoned, and the dependence of view has
been abandoned. State, the World-Honored One is the non-dependant of
eyes, the non-dependence of ears... nose... tongue... body... mind, all
forms... all sounds... all smells... all tastes... all touches [...
[Dharma]...family...group (congregation)...abode...a gain...a
reputation...a compliment...a pleasure...clothing...a food...a place to
live...the patient's needs, medical necessities...the world of desire...
The realm of form...the realm of formlessness...the desire has...the
form has...the formless has...the desire has...the non-thinking
has...the non-thinking is not the non-thinking...the one aggregate
has...the four aggregates are...the five aggregates are... ...the
past...the future...the present...is the one who sees, hears, feels, and
can know all things that are not dependent on, not clinging to, not
falling into, not sticking to, not turning one's mind toward )By.
Released, departed, liberated, freed from bondage, he abides with a mind
free from limitations. ' For the one who is enlightened, the one who
does not depend.
　　"Those who are like that", the Blessed One is like that in five
respects: those who are satisfied or dissatisfied are those who are like
that, those who have given up are those who are like that, those who
have passed over are those who are like that, The "liberated one" is the
one like that, the one described as like that.
　　How is the Blessed One who is like that, whether satisfied or not?
The World Honored One is like that when it comes to getting; He is like
that when it comes to not getting it; He is also like that when it comes
to having a reputation; He is also like that when it comes to having no
reputation; like that in rebuke; also like that in pleasure; like that
in suffering, some people's wrists will be smeared with spices, some
people's wrists will work with axes: He has no greed for being like
that; he has no aversion for being like that, he has given up greed and
aversion, he has overcome victory and defeat, he has transcended
obedience and opposition.
　　How is the Blessed One who is "abandoned" like that? The greed of
the World-Honored One has been abandoned, spit out, released, abandoned,
and broken; hatred... (abbreviated in the middle) ignorance... anger...
resentment... hiding evil... domineering... jealous... ... stubborn ...
passion ... slow ... very slow ... shyness ... lethargy ... all
pollution ... all evil deeds ... all afflictions ... all scorching heat
... all vexations ... all unwholesome pretensions Abandoned, spit out,
released, abandoned, and thought-off, this is what the Blessed One
"abandoned" is like that.
　　How is the Blessed One "passed" like that? The torrent of the
Blessed One's desire has been passed; some floods have passed; the flood
of seeing has passed; the flood of ignorance has passed; Crossed,
overcome, he is the one who has descended, the one who has practiced the
action, the one who has completed the journey, the one who has reached
the direction, the one who has reached the end, the one who has guarded
the holy life, the one who has reached the highest view, the one who has
practised the path, For those who have given up defilements, those who
have penetrated and unshakable, and those who have witnessed the
cessation of suffering, for him, suffering has been fully known, the
accumulation has been abandoned, the path has been practiced, the
cessation has been proved, and the ones that should be realized have
been realized. Know what should be universally known, what should be
abandoned should be abandoned, what should be practiced should be
practiced, and what should be testified should be testified. He is the
one who lifts the bar, the one who fills the ditch, the one who pulls
out the pillar, the one who has no bar, the one who has fallen the
banner of the saint, the one who has lifted the burden, the one who has
been separated, the one who has given up the five branches, the one who
has had the six branches Those who have one guardian and four reliances
are those whose respective truths have been removed, those who have
sought and given up and are completely destroyed, those who have no
turbulent intentions, those who have calmed their bodies and actions,
those who are good in mind and liberated, those who are liberated by
wisdom, and those who have been liberated. The highest person who is
fully accomplished, the supreme person, who has attained the supreme
achievement, he neither composes nor disassembles, does not pile up and
then abides; neither gives up nor clings to, but gives up and then
stands; neither To disperse (Thai version) nor to accumulate, to stand
after dispelling; neither to extinguish nor to ignite, to stand after
extinguished [ SN.22.79
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.79>], is a resident
with the state of the unlearned precept aggregate, a resident with the
unlearned state of concentration, the resident with the unlearned wisdom
aggregate, the resident with the unlearned liberation aggregate, the
unlearned Those who are in the state of liberation from the aggregates
of knowledge and view, those who have completed and penetrated the truth
(truth), those who have overcome disturbances (dynamic greed), those who
have lived after the pollution fire has been extinguished, those who
have not come back at all Dweller, Dweller who has grasped the victory,
Dweller who enjoys a state of liberation, Dweller who is pure in
compassion, Dweller who is pure in compassion, Dweller who is pure in
joy, Dweller who is pure in joy, Peaceful The abiding one who is all
pure, the one who is absolutely pure, the one who is not equal to the
other (Ceylon version) the one who is all pure, the one who is
liberated, the one who is satisfied, the Dweller in the ultimate
(boundary), Dweller in the ultimate world, Dweller in the ultimate
place, Dweller in the ultimate place of interest, Dweller in the
ultimate rebirth, Dweller in the ultimate rebirth The ultimate dweller,
the ultimate dweller of being, the ultimate dweller of samsara, the
ultimate dweller of samsara [, the ultimate dweller of doing], the
ultimate dweller of having The dweller, the dweller in the last
gathering (body), the one who holds the last body.
　　"This is his last being, this is his last gathering (body), the
cycle of life and
　　　death, without his rebirth. '
　　Such is the Blessed One who 'passed over' is like that.
　　How is the Blessed One who is "liberated" like that? The
World-Honored One's mind has been freed from greed, liberated, freed
from virtue; the mind has been freed from hatred...the mind has been
freed from delusion...from anger...from resentment...from hiding
evil...from tyranny...from jealousy...from stinginess... ...from
deceit...from cunning...from stubbornness...from passion...from
slowness...from extreme slowness...from arrogance...from laziness...from
all pollution...from all evil...from all Suffering...from all scorching
heat...from all heat and affliction...the mind is freed, freed, freed
from all unwholesome contrivances, and this is what the Blessed One
"liberated" is like that.
　　What is the Blessed One who is described as like that? The Blessed
One who "is a man of precepts" is described as being like that; "is a
believer in faith" is described as being like that; "is a living being
in vitality" is described as being like that; The one who is mindful in
mindfulness is described as like that; The one who has three knowledges
is described as being like that; the one who is “six supernatural
powers” ​​is described as that; like that. "For the One who is
enlightened, the non-reliant, like that.
　　"Non-tricksters, those who come to the Lords": "'Non-tricksters',
there are three kinds of tricks: the tricks of being able to use the
tricks, the tricks of the behavior, and the tricks of the surrounding
language.
　　What are the tricks of the utilitarian scheme? Here, the owner of
the house invites the monk with clothes, food, shelter, the needs of the
sick, and the necessities of medicine. Many people refuse clothing,
food, shelter, the sick, and the necessities of medicine. He said, "What
does it mean to a monk with high-value clothing! It is appropriate for a
monk to wear rags from the mounds or from the rubbish dumps or from the
front of the store to make a coat. What does it mean to a recluse to
feed with high value! It is appropriate that any ascetic should live on
a small lump of food while gleaning. What does a high-value dwelling
have to a Samana! It is appropriate that a recluse should be one who
lives under a tree or in a mound or in an open field. With high-value
patient needs and medical necessities, what does it mean to a monk! '[It
is appropriate that any ascetic should use the medicine fermented with
cow urine or shreddil. After clinging to that, he wears coarse clothes;
receives coarse food; lives in coarse dwellings; ] The house owners know
him like this: "This ascetic is one who has less desires, one who is
contented, one who lives alone, one who leaves the crowd, one whose
vitality has been activated, and one who speaks of the head. ' They are
more and more invited with clothing, food, shelter, the needs of the
sick, the necessities of medicine. He said: "In the present state of the
three states, a man of good faith produces many merits: in the current
state of faith, a man of good faith produces many merits, and a man of
good faith produces many merits, and a man of good faith produces many
merits, which are worthy of offering. In the current state, there are
many good-faith men who have good faith. You are the believer, and the
gift exists (to be found), and I am the recipient, if I do not accept,
then you will be outsiders of the blessing, this is not necessary for
me, but just for pity You, I accept. ' After clinging to that, he
received many clothes, many alms of food, many shelters, and many sick
people's needs, medical necessities. The frown of those who frown like
this; the path of the deceitful man, the state of the deceitful man,
this is the deceitful thing that is capable of being used.
　　What is the tricky thing about behavior tricks? Here, a certain
class of those who desire evil, those who desire nature, those who
desire respect [thought]: 'Then people will respect me. ' He sets to
walk, sets to stand, sets to sit, sets to lie down, walks for desires,
stands for desires, sits for desires, lays down for desires, walks as
those who are in concentration, walks as if they are in concentration.
stand as one who is meditative, sit as one who is meditative, lie down
as one who is meditative, and become visible as meditative. Any
placement of deeds like this, enhanced placement, full placement; frowns
of frowns; deceitful paths of tricksters, state of trickery, this is the
tricky thing of deeds of deeds.
　　What are the tricks of the surrounding language tricks? Here, a
certain class of those who desire evil, those who desire nature, those
who desire respect [thought]: 'Then people will respect me. ' He spoke
according to the Dhamma, and he said: 'Whoever dresses like this is a
recluse of great power. ' He said: 'Whoever bears a bowl like
this...holds a copper bowl...a water filter...a water filter bag...a
key...wears shoes...a belt...a lace...he is a great power sramana. ' He
said: 'Whoever his monks are like this is a monk of great power. ' He
said: 'Anyone whose teacher is like this...a monk who is like this...a
teacher who is like
this...friend...acquaintance...closer...companion...he is a monk of
great power. ' He said: 'Whoever lives in such a dwelling is a recluse
of great power. ' He said: 'Whoever lives in a half-roofed house like
this... lives in a high-rise...in a flat...in a cave...in a cave...in a
hut (solitary mansion)...in a heavy The pavilion... lived in the
lookout... in the round house... in the shack... in the lecture hall...
in the tent... under the tree... He was the monk of great power. ’
　　Or, one who keeps frowning; one who keeps frowning; one who keeps
scheming; one who keeps nagging; one who is respected for his mouth, he
says as deep, secret, subtle, secret, otherworldly, Talking about
emptiness: "This ascetic got this [silent] abode and waited. ' The frown
of those who frown like this; the path of the trick, the state of the
trick, this is the trick of the surrounding language. "To the Buddha and
the World-Honored One, these three kinds of tricks: the tricks of being
equipped and used, the tricks of deeds, the tricks of the surrounding
words have been abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to.
Arising, burnt by the fire of wisdom, so the Buddha is not a trickster.
' is not a trickster.
　　"He who comes to the Lords", "The Lords", the World-Honored One is
the Lord, the "Teacher of the group" is the Lord, the "Master of the
group" is the Lord, "He takes care of the group" is the Lord, "He
teaches the group" ” is the master, “He admonishes the group” is the
master, “He goes to see the group fearlessly” is the master, “The group
wants to listen, listen, and understand with his heart” is the master,
“When the group appears unwholesome” He establishes it in goodness' as
the lord, [He] is the lord of the monks (group), the lord of the nuns,
the lord of the Upasaka, the lord of the Upasians , the lord of the
kings, the lord of the Kshatriyas, the lord of the Brahmins, the lord of
the Vaishas, ​​the lord of the Sudras, the lord of the Brahma, the lord
of the gods The lord of the congregation is the lord of the sangha, the
teacher of the group. "Come", arrived, fully arrived, has fully arrived
(Thailand version) Sange city. ' For those who are not scheming, those
who come to the Lords.
　　"Here belongs to many bound people": "Belongs to many Kshatriyas,
Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, laymen, monks, gods, people. 'Belonging to
the bound' belongs to the bound , belong to the attendant, to the
servant, to the disciple." For here belong to the many bound.
　　"Needs come with questions": "With questions I come needy, want to
ask questions I come, want to hear questions I come." This is the need
that comes with questions. Or, "The inquiring of the question is in
need, of the one who wants to ask the question, of the one who wants to
hear, there will be the coming, the approach, the approach, the visit of
the needy." This is also the need to come with the question. Or, "When
you come with questions, you can, you have enough reason to tell and
answer what I ask, please bear this burden." This is also the need to
come with questions.
　　Because of that, The Lord Sariputta said,
　　"The One who is enlightened, the one who does not depend, the one
who is like that, the one who is not a trickster, the one who comes to
the masters, who
　　　here belongs to the many who are bound, who comes with a question
in need."
　　193. When a bhikkhu is bored, he is close to an empty seat,
　　　or under a tree, among mounds, or in a cave.
　　"When a monk is bored": "'Being a monk', a good and ordinary monk,
or a learned monk. 'Being weary', weary of birth, weary of old age,
sickness...death...worry...sorrow ...to suffer...to worry...to be bored
by despair, to suffer from hell...to suffer from beasts...to suffer from
hungry ghosts...to suffer from human beings...to suffer from the root of
womb...by Suffering rooted in womb... Suffering rooted in birth...
Suffering bound by birth...... Suffering belonging to other births......
Suffering [for] getting efforts...... Suffering by other efforts......
Suffering... Suffering by doing... Suffering by being changed......
Suffering by eye disease...... Suffering by ear disease... Suffering by
nose disease... Suffering by tongue disease... Suffering by body
disease... Suffering The pain of head disease... the pain of external
ear disease... the pain of mouth disease... the pain of tooth disease...
the cough... the panting... the external nose disease... the fever...
the old... the Abdominal disease... coma... diarrhea... abdominal
pain... cholera... leprosy... tumor... ringworm... lung disease...
epilepsy... ringworm... mange... ...by rheumatism...by scratches (a type
of leprosy)...by dry skin...by blood disease...by gall disease...by
diabetes...by hemorrhoids...by rashes (boils and blisters)...by
hemorrhoid fistulas (ulcers) )...diseases caused by
gallbladder...diseases caused by phlegm...diseases caused by
wind...diseases caused by [three] gatherings...diseases caused by
seasonal changes...diseases caused by improper posture Diseases born
from ... sudden diseases ... diseases reborn by karma, cold ... hot ...
hunger ... thirst ... feces ... urine, flies, mosquitoes, scorching sun
The suffering of the snake's contact... the suffering of the loss of the
mother... the suffering of the loss of the father... the loss of the
brother... the loss of the sister... the loss of the son... the loss of
the daughter... the loss of the relatives... the loss of property... …
lost by disease... lost by virtue... weary, distressed, anxious,
disgusted by seeing loss.” For when a monk is weary.
　　"Close to the no-man's seat": "The place where he sits is called the
seat: bed, chair, cushion, small cushion, leather cushion, straw
cushion, leaf cushion, straw cushion. That seat is not suitable for all
shapes and sizes. To see, to isolate, to keep away from; to hear, to
hear inappropriate sounds, to be rejected, to isolate, to keep away; The
five desires are abandoned, isolated, and far away, and the one that is
far away from the seat is close, completely close, clinging, bent to
cling, completely clinging, and facing toward clinging." To approach the
unoccupied seat.
　　"Or under the tree, between the mounds": "The under the tree is
under the tree, and the mound is between the mounds." For or under the
tree, between the mounds. "Or in a cave": "A mountain is a mountain, a
cave is a cave, and a mountain cave is a mountain cave. The inner part
of the mountain is called the cave of the mountain." For or in a cave.
　　Because of that, the Venerable Sariputta said,
　　"When a bhikkhu is bored, he stays close to an unoccupied seat, under a
　　　tree, in a mound, or in a cave."
　　194. There are so many terrible things in various sleeping places, and
　　　bhikkhus should not Those trembling: in quiet dwellings?
　　"In all kinds of sleeping places": "'In all kinds', in all kinds, in
inferior and superior, pure and evil. Houses, dwellings, half-roofed
houses, tall buildings, flat houses, caves are called sleeping places."
For various sleeping places. "How many scary things are out there":
"'how many', how many chirps, roars, sounds produced. Or, 'how many',
how many, how many, how many, how many-many. 'Scary' : lions, tigers,
leopards, bears, scoundrels, wolves, wild bulls, elephants, snakes,
scorpions, centipedes, or thieves and rogues who do evil or prepare to
do evil.” For how many terrible things are there.
　　"A monk should not tremble because of those": "Because of those,"
because of those terrible things he should not tremble after seeing or
hearing, should not tremble (strong tremor), should not tremble (strong
tremor), should not be afraid, Should not be afraid (upward fear),
should not be timid (full fear), should not be afraid, should not come
to fear, should be the one who is not afraid, the one who does not
panic, the one who does not panic, the one who does not run away, and
the one who has given up Frightened and terrified, the hairs stand up
from the body." It is not for the monks to tremble because of those.
　　"In a quiet place": "In a quiet place, quiet, away from people's
atmosphere, alone, suitable for sitting alone." In a quiet place.
　　Because of that, The Lord Sariputta said:
　　"In all kinds of sleeping places, how many terrible things are there,
　　　Bhikkhus should not tremble because of those: In a quiet abode?
　　195. How many perils are there in the world, for those who have not
traveled in a direction,
　　　on which the monks should conquer: a dwelling in the borderlands?
　　"How many dangers are there in the world": "'How many', how many,
how many, how many, how many-many. In 'crises', there are two kinds of
dangers: obvious dangers and hidden dangers. Which are obvious dangers
?Lions, tigers, leopards, bears, wild dogs, wolves, bisons, elephants,
snakes, scorpions, centipedes, or thieves or rogues who do evil or
prepare to do evil, with diseases of the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body,
Head disease, external ear disease, mouth disease, dental disease,
cough, asthma, external nose disease, fever, old age, abdominal disease,
coma, diarrhea, abdominal pain, cholera, leprosy, tumor, ringworm, lung
disease, epilepsy, ringworm, Mange, rheumatism, scratching (a kind of
leprosy), chapped skin, blood disease, gallbladder disease, diabetes,
hemorrhoids, rash (boil blisters), hemorrhoid fistula (ulcer),
gallbladder and other diseases... Hunger, thirst, feces, urine, contact
with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, snakes, etc. These are called
obvious dangers.
　　What are the hidden dangers? , malice, slumber, delusion and regret,
doubt, greed, hatred, delusion, anger, resentment, hiding evil,
domineering, jealous, stingy, deceitful, cunning, stubborn, passionate,
slow, extremely slow , arrogance, lethargy, all pollution, all evil
deeds, all afflictions, all scorching heat, all heat and afflictions,
all unwholesome deeds, these are called hidden dangers.
　　"Crisis", what is the meaning of danger? "Conquering" is peril;
"leading to retreat" is peril; "dwelling there" is peril.
　　What is perilous to "conquer"? "Conquest of all" is peril.
　　How is "guided retreat" in danger? Those obstacles and failures that
lead to good Dharma, what kind of good Dharma? The right way, the
obedient way, the non-reversed way, the non-contradictory way (the
non-contradictory way), the way of the meaning, the way of the Dharma,
the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the gates on the roots,
the one who knows the right amount of food and drink , specializing in
sobriety, mindfulness and clear understanding, the diligent practice of
the four mindfulness, the four right diligence...the four spiritual
feet...the five faculties...the five powers...the seven enlightenment
factors...the eight noble paths, leading to these good dharmas Obstacles
and setbacks, this is "led to setbacks" as danger.
　　What does it mean to "dwell there" as danger? There, these evil and
unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal dependence, such as
burrowing animals lying in caves; aquatic animals lying in water; forest
animals lying in forests; arboreal animals lying in trees. Likewise,
there, these evil and unwholesome dharmas arise together for personal
dependence. This is the danger of "dwelling there".
　　This was said by the Blessed One: [ SN.35.151
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.151>]
　　"Monks! Bhikkhus who have apprentices and masters live in suffering
and not happy. Bhikkhus! And how does a monk with apprentices and
masters live in suffering without being happy? Bhikkhus! Here, after the
bhikkhu sees the form with his eyes, he develops the remembrance and
intention of those evil and unwholesome dharmas that follow the knot.
　　Again, monks! After a bhikkhu hears sounds with his ears...
(abbreviated in the middle) after smelling smells with his nose...after
tasting tastes with his tongue...after touching his body with his
body...after knowing the Dharma with his consciousness, he will have the
remembrance of those evil and unwholesome things that follow and obey
the knot. with intent. "They dwell in him; evil and unwholesome dharmas
dwell, enter (occupy). ' Therefore, he was called 'having an
apprentice'. "They conquered him; evil and evil conquered him. '
Therefore, he is called 'the master'. Bhikkhus! In this way, bhikkhus
with apprentices and masters live in suffering and not at ease. ' This
is also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　This is said by the Blessed One: [ It.88
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=88>]
　　"Monks! There are these three kinds of internal dirt, internal
non-friends, internal enemies, internal killers, internal enemies, which
three? Bhikkhus! Greed is internal filth, internal non-friend, internal
enemy, internal murderer, internal foe; monks! Angry... (slightly
omitted) Bhikkhus! Delusion is internal dirt, internal non-friend,
internal enemy, internal killer, internal hatred. Bhikkhus! These are
the three kinds of internal filth, internal non-friend, internal enemy,
internal killer, internal foe. "
　　Greed is the cause of unprofitability, greed is the one that shakes
the heart,
　　　something terrible arises from within, and people don't understand
that.
　　　The greedy person does not know the benefit, the greedy person
does not see the Dharma,
　　　then he is a blind dark person: anyone who is greedy and can conquer.
　　　Hatred is the cause of no benefit, hatred is the one that shakes
the heart,
　　　something terrible arises from within, and people don't understand
that.
　　　The angry person does not know the benefits, the angry person does
not see the Dharma,
　　　then he is a blind dark person: a person who can conquer all hatred.
　　　Delusion is the cause of no benefit, delusion is the one that
shakes the heart,
　　　something terrible arises from within, and people don't understand
that.
　　　The foolish man does not know the benefits,
　　　the foolish man cannot see the Dharma, then he is the blind
darkness: the man who the mortal fools can conquer. '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'. This is said by the
Blessed One: [ SN.3.2 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=3.2>]
　　"Your Majesty! When the three dharmas arise within a man,
unfavorableness, suffering, and unpleasantness arise, which three? King!
When craving arises in a man himself, unfavorableness, suffering,
unpleasantness and happiness arise; great king! When hatred arises
within a man's own self... When ignorance arises in a man himself,
unfavorableness, suffering, restlessness and happiness arise, great
king! When these three dharmas arise within the man himself,
unfavorable, suffering, and unpleasant abiding arises. "
　　The greed, hatred, ignorance, and disgusting men, which arise
　　　from themselves, kill them like their own fruit to bamboo." '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'.
　　This is said by the Blessed One: [ SN.10.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=10.3>]
　　"From here comes greed and hatred, from here arises unhappiness,
happiness, the hair on the body stands
　　　up, from here arises and seeks with the mind, like a little boy
putting a crow away. '
　　This is also the danger of 'dwelling there'. "In the world", in the
human world. "For how many dangers there are in the world.
　　"For those who have not gone to the direction": "The "undirected" is
called immortality, nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
greed, the cessation of Nirvana. The direction that has not been
traveled before, not the direction that has been traveled before: with
this long journey.
　　If he carries an oil bowl that is completely full to the edge, he
　　should guard himself like this. Those who have not traveled to the
direction before. Those who seek.
　　For those who have never been to the direction before, those who
walk, those who advance." For those who have never been to the direction
of walking.
　　"On those on which the monk should conquer": "'On those', on those
perils he should conquer, he should defeat, he should overwhelm, he
should end, he should crush." ​​For those on which the monk should conquer.
　　"A dwelling on the border": "On the border, on the border, on the
border, on the edge of the mountains, or on the edge of the forest, or
on the edge of the river, or on the water's edge, where it is not
cultivated or sown, The limit, after passing through, will not approach
[the] sitting place for people." For the dwelling on the edge.
　　Because of that, the Venerable Sariputta said,
　　"How many perils are there in the world, for those who have not
traveled in a direction, and
　　　those who go up to the bhikkhus should be conquered: the abode in
the borderlands?"
　　196. What language should there be? What should be the situation here?
　　　Should there be any precepts and prohibitions that belong to the
self-efforts of monks?
　　"What kind of language should there be": "'What kind of language
should there be, what kind of establishment, what kind, what kind of
contrast.' He asked about the universal purity of speech. What is the
universal purity of speech? Here "After a monk abandons the false
speech, he is the one who leaves the false speech, the one who speaks
the truth, the one who follows the truth, the one who is reliable, the
one who is trustworthy, and the one who does not deceive the world.
After he abandons the false speech, he is the one who leaves the false
speech: after hearing it from here, Not for the division of those who
speak there, or hear from there, not for the division of those who speak
here, like this, the mediator of division, or the giver of peace, the
reconciler, the reconciler , who likes to be reconciled, and speaks of
harmonious words. After he has given up harsh words, he is the one who
renounces harsh words, all the words that are soft, pleasant, lovely,
enticing, elegant, pleasing to all, and pleasing to all. , is the
speaker of words like this. After discarding the profanity, it is the
one who leaves the profanity: the speaker of the right time, the speaker
of the facts, the speaker of the beneficial, the speaker of the law, the
speaker of the law, the one who says there is Speaker of value (stored),
justified at the right time, temperate, concomitant interest [ AN.4.198
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.198>]. He possesses
four kinds of speech, good deeds, and four kinds of words without fault.
He should have been separated from the thirty-two animal doctrines,
abstained, abstained, renounced, detached, liberated, and freed from
fetters, and he abides with a mind free from limitations. He said ten
things to talk about, namely: the theory of less desires, the theory of
contentment...the theory of solitude...the theory of
non-communication...the theory of vitality...the theory of
precepts...the theory of finality...the theory of wisdom...the theory of
liberation... ...the theory of liberation and knowledge...the theory of
mindfulness...the theory of right diligence...the theory of the
sufficiency of the gods...the theory of the root...the theory of
strength...the theory of enlightenment...the theory of the Tao...the
theory of fruition, the theory of Nirvana. Discreet, discreet, guarding,
protecting, guarding, self-controlled speech, this is the universal
purification of speech. There should be a universal purity of speech
like this. "For what language should there be. 　　"What kind of
environment should there be here?": "'It should have what it looks like,
what kind of erection, what kind, and what
　　kind of contrast.' He asked about the environment.
Non-traditional? Here, a certain type of person is a prostitute, or a
widow, or an unmarried woman, or a non-male (Banchoka), or a bhikshuni.
AN.5.102 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=5.102>], or the
drinker, who dwells with kings, dignitaries, heretics, outsiders,
inappropriate contact with incommunicados. Or all those bhikkhus,
bhikkhunis, superior Those who have no faith, those who do not have pure
faith, those who do not become water providers, those who insult and
slander, those who desire no profit, those who desire no profit, those
who desire no peace, and those who do not wish to be yoked and secure,
he is close to and associates with , visiting houses like this, this is
called a non-traditional state.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor within a lay house, a street walker,
he walks unprotected: he walks watching the elephant, watching the
horse, watching Cars, Watching the Infantry, Watching the Women,
Watching the Men, Watching the Boys, Watching the Girls, Watching the
Market, Watching the Door of the House, Watching Above, Watching Down,
Looking Around It is not a state of action.
　　Or, after seeing a form with the eyes, a monk becomes a grasper of
appearances and a clinger of subtle appearances. Dharma assembly flows
in, he does not act according to his self-control, does not protect the
mind, does not achieve self-control on the mind.SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>], which is also
known as non-travel.
　　Or as some recluses and brahmins receive food from their venerable
teachers, they live in the practitioners who perform and watch like
this, namely: dancing, singing, music, drama, ancient talk, hand bells,
cymbals, drums, magic, iron ball play , bamboo sticks, stunts, elephant
fights, horse fights, buffalo fights, bull fights, goat fights, ram
fights, rooster fights, quail fights, stick fights, fist fights,
wrestling, drills, parade, army formation, military parade [ DN .1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, paragraph 13] etc.,
like this is a performer of performance viewing, which is also called a
non-performing state.
　　The five desires are also non-physical states. This was said by the
Blessed One: Bhikkhus! Don't walk in the wrong place, in the realm of
others. Bhikkhus! Those who walk in the wrong situation, the domain of
others, the devil will get the opportunity, and the devil will get the
object. Bhikkhus! And what is the impropriety of a monk, the domain of
others? Namely: five desires, which five? What can be recognized by the
eyes, what is wanted, what is loved, what is desirable, what is lovely,
what is associated with desire, what is tainted by greed; what can be
recognized by the ear... the sounds, what can be recognized by the
nose... Smell, cognizable by the tongue... Tastes, cognizable by the
body, desired, loved, desirable, lovable, accompany, craving [ SN.47.7
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=47.7>]. Bhikkhus! This is
called the bhikkhu's impropriety, the domain of others. This is also
known as non-travel.
　　What is the line of sight? Here, a bhikkhu is not a prostitute, not
a widow, not an unmarried woman, not a male (Banchoka), not a monk, not
a drinker, he lives in Have proper contact and communication with kings,
high officials, outsiders, and outsiders. Or those who are bhikkhus,
nuns, upasakas, and upasians who have faith, those who have pure faith,
those who become water providers, those who have robes and lights, those
who are immortals who go against the wind [?] He wants to yoke and
secure families, and he gets close to, associates with, and visits such
families, and this is called a state of conduct.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor in the lay family, a walker on the
streets, he walks defensively: he does not walk while watching the
elephant, not the horse, not the chariot, not the infantry... (omitted
in the middle) Walking in all directions without looking around is also
known as walking environment.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he does not become a
grasper of features, a grasper of subtle features... (abbreviated in the
middle) to achieve self-control on the root of mind, which is also
called the state of conduct.
　　Or, for example, after some recluses and Brahmins received food,
they did not stay in such performances as those engaged in watching,
that is: dancing, singing, music... (abbreviated in the middle) military
parades, etc. , which is also known as the state of action.
　　The four mindfulness-abiding states are the state of conduct. This
was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! And what is the proper state of
conduct for a monk, the state of his own father and grandfather? That
is: four mindfulness, which four? Bhikkhus! Here, the bhikkhu dwells on
the body and observes the body [: zealous, wise, mindful, subduing greed
in the world, worrying afterward]; on feeling... To follow the Dharma in
all dharmas: the zealous, the wise, and the mindful, to subdue the greed
and worry in the world. Bhikkhus! This is the proper state of conduct
for a monk, the state of his own father and grandfather. This is also
called the line of sight. There should be a situation like this.
"Because there should be a situation here.
　　"What kind of precepts and restraints should there be?": "'What kind
of precepts and restraints should there be, what kind of establishment,
what kind, and what kind of contrasts should there be.' He asked about
the universal purity of precepts and restraints. What are precepts and
restraints? The pervasive purity of prohibition? There are precepts and
prohibitions, and there are prohibitions [and] non-precepts. What are
precepts and prohibitions? Here, monks are precept-holders, who live
under the protection of the self-control of Paratimcha, who have right
conduct and conduct. If you see terrible things in all the petty sins,
you will learn them after you have learned them. Wherever you suppress,
restrain yourself, and do not violate them, this is a precept; whoever
observes it is a prohibition. Take self-righteousness as a precept;
Prohibition, this is called abstinence and prohibition.
　　What is prohibition [and not] abstinence? There are eight-headed
tuozhi: the forestry branch, the constant begging for food, the
dung-sweeping cloth, the Dan three-clothing, the sequential begging, not
eating after eating, always sitting [not lying down], and staying
anywhere. This is called prohibition. And] not ring. The observance of
vitality is also called the prohibition [and] not the precepts: "It
would be better to have only skin, tendons, and bones left; to dry up
the flesh and blood of the body, as long as one's perseverance, one's
vigor, one's effort ought to be attained and not attained. , there will
be no cessation of vitality. [ SN.12.22
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.22>]' His wholehearted
and diligent observance of such vitality is also called prohibition
[rather than] not precept.
　　"I shall neither eat nor drink, nor go out of my dwelling,
　　　nor shall I fall down (relieve): until the arrow of craving has
not been removed. '[Thag.223]
　　His whole-hearted, diligent observance of such vigour is also called
prohibition [rather] than precept. "As long as my mind does not cling to
andis freed from the straits, I will not break this cross-legged! [
MN.32 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=32>]' He was
devoted and diligent, and the observance of such vigour is also called
prohibition [rather] than precepts. I won't get up from this seat...I
won't get down from the walk...I won't get out of the dwelling...I won't
get out of the half-roofed house...I won't get out of the
high-rise...from the bungalow... From the cave...from the cave...from
the hut (solitary mansion)...from the heavy pavilion...from the
observation deck...from the round house...from the hut...from the
lecture hall...from the tent..."As long as my heart is. After not
holding on to it, you will be free from all omissionsFreed, I will not
go out from under the tree. ' His whole-hearted, diligent observance of
such vigour is also called prohibition [rather than] precepts. "Just
before this noon I shall attain, fully attain, attain, touch, bear
witness to the Dhamma. ' His whole-hearted, diligent observance of such
vigour is also called prohibition [rather than] precepts. Just this
noon...evening...before eating...after eating...before
night...midnight...after night...at the time of death...in the white
moon...in the rainy season...in winter... In summer...in youth...in
middle age..."In old age I shall attain, fully attain, attain, touch,
bear witness to the Dhamma. ' His whole-hearted, diligent observance of
such vigour is also called prohibition [rather than] precepts. This is
the universal purification of precepts and prohibitions. There should be
a universal purity of precepts and prohibitions like this. "For what
should be the precepts and prohibitions.
　　"It belongs to the self-effort of the monks": "It belongs to the
self-effort of the monks, to those whose vigor has been activated, to
those who have come to fortitude, to those who make firm efforts, to
those who do not neglect their will, and to those who do not neglect
their responsibilities in the good dharma. Or, the goal that belongs to
oneself issued, in one's own interests, in the truth, in the
characteristics, in the cause, in the reason and the non-principle: "All
actions are impermanent" is issued by oneself. "All actions are
suffering" comes from oneself; "All actions are without self" comes from
oneself; "All actions are conditioned by ignorance (and all actions
exist)" comes from oneself... (Middle abbreviation) "Old age and death
take birth as a precondition" is issued by oneself; "Against ignorance,
there is cessation of formation (and the cessation of action exists)" is
issued by oneself... (Middle abbreviation) "With birth and death, there
is old age and death cessation." ' is issued by oneself; "This is
suffering" is issued by oneself... (Abbreviated in the middle) "This is
the path leading to suffering" is issued by oneself; "These are
leakages" is issued by oneself...( Abbreviation) "This is the path
leading to the leakage" is issued by oneself; "These laws should be
proven" is issued by myself... (Abbreviated) "These laws should be
witnessed" is issued by myself; Jue 6 The arising, cessation, bliss,
trouble, and renunciation of the place of touch belong to oneself; the
five aggregates of clinging...the four elements arise, annihilate,
bliss, trouble, and renunciation belong to oneself "Any collection of
dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" is issued by oneself. "It belongs to
monks," belongs to monks who are good and ordinary, or who learn from
monks." It belongs to monks who work hard on their own.
　　Because of that, Sariputta said:
　　"What kind of language should there be? What kind of behavior should
there be here? What　　precepts
　　　and prohibitions should be in place, which belong to the
self-effort of a monk? 　　　" Should a blacksmith remove his filth from
silver? 　　"What should he learn after holding": "What should he learn
after grasping, after holding, after taking, after taking on, after
picking up, after grasping, after grasping." What should he learn after
receiving and holding. 　　"Single-minded, wise, and mindful":
"Single-mindedness, one mind, undisturbed mind, stable mind, samatha
(settlement), concentration, concentration... (abbreviated in the
middle) right concentration "The wise", the wise are the wise, the wise,
the enlightened, the wise, the intelligent, and the wise. When he is
mindful of the body, he is contemplative, while he is feeling... (middle
abbreviated) in the mind... (middle abbreviated) when he is practising
and contemplating the dharma in all dharmas, he is conscientious. He is
called For those who are mindful." For those who are mindful. "What
should he learn after receiving and upholding?" Learning. "Those who are
mindful", he asks for purification." For what he should learn after
receiving and upholding, he should be single-minded, wise, and mindful.
　　"As a blacksmith is to silver, he should remove his own filth": "The
blacksmith is called a goldsmith, and silver is called gold. As a
goldsmith is to gold, he blows, fanns, and melts [ AN.3.102
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.102>] coarse filth. ,
also blowing, fanning, and dissolving medium impurities, and blowing,
fanning, and dissolving fine impurities. Likewise, a bhikkhu blows,
fanning, and dissolves his own gross impurities, renounces, drives away,
ends, and makes It goes to non-existence. Moderate pollution...
(Abbreviated in the middle) also blows, fan fires, dissolves fine
pollution, abandons, drives away, ends, and makes it go to non-existence.




<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.102>
　　Or, a bhikkhu blows the air, fans the fire, dissolves the filth of
greed, the filth of hatred, the filth of ignorance, the filth of
slowness, the filth of seeing, the filth of defilement, the filth of
evil deeds, the filth of greed, the filth of ignorance, the filth of
ignorance Eyes, those who do not do wisdom, those who destroy wisdom,
those who irritate their companions, and those who do not lead to
Nirvana [ AN.3.72 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.72>],
abandon, drive away, end, and bring them to non-existence.
　　Or, blowing the wind, fanning the fire, dissolving wrong views with
right view, letting go, driving away, ending, and making it go to
non-existence. With a righteous will... (abbreviated in the middle) an
evil will.... In right speech...evil speech.... With right karma...
wicked karma . . . With a good life... an evil life.... With Right
Effort... Evil Effort. With righteous thoughts... evil thoughts.
Concentrate on the right...the evil. With good wisdom... evil wisdom.
With the right liberation blowing the wind, fanning the fire, dissolving
the evil liberation, abandoning, driving away, ending, and making it go
to non-existence.
　　Or, with the Eightfold Noble Path to blow air, fan the fire,
dissolve all pollution, all evil deeds, all afflictions, all scorching
heat, all ardent afflictions, all unwholesome fabrications, abandon,
drive away, end, and bring it to non-existence . "For as a blacksmith is
to silver, he should remove his own filth.
　　Because of that, the Venerable Sariputta said,
　　"What should he learn after receiving and upholding? A
single-minded, wise, and mindful person,
　　　like a blacksmith to silver, should remove his own filth?"
　　198. [World-Honored One: "Sariputta!" ] For those who are bored, to
follow the unoccupied seat and the sleeping place is indeed happiness.
　　　For those who want to be enlightened, I will say that for you as
someone who knows.
　　"To the bored... that is happiness": "'To the bored', 'To the bored
of life, to be old... sick... to die... to worry... to be saddened'
...to suffer...to be worried...to despair...(Middle abbreviation) For
those who are tired of suffering, suffering, and anxious who are seen as
loss (bad view)." For those who are weary. "That is, happiness." ', I
will tell those who live in peace. What is peace? The right path, the
path that follows, the path that doesn't go upside down, the path that
doesn't contradict, the path that is what it means, the path that
follows the law , Complete all precepts, guard the door on all
faculties, know the right amount of food and drink, specialize in
sobriety, mindfulness and clear understanding, four mindfulness, four
right effort, four spiritual feet, five faculties, five powers, seven
enlightenment factors, and eight holy factors The path, Nibbāna, and the
path leading to Nibbāna, this is the blissful dwelling." For the
weary...that is bliss.
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Shariputra!']": "Address that Highness by
name. 'World-Honored One', a synonym for respect. In addition, 'the one
who has destroyed greed' is the World-Honored One; "the one who has
destroyed hatred" is the World-Honored One; "Those who have destroyed
ignorance" are the World Honored; The one who distinguishes the Dharma
treasures is the World Honored One; "the one who has finished" is the
World Honored One; "the one who has practiced the body, the precepts,
the mind has been trained, and the wisdom has been trained" is the World
Honored One; reclining seat): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of
people, living alone, suitable for sitting alone” is the Blessed One; or
“The Blessed One is a partaker of clothing, food, shelter, the needs of
the sick, and the necessities of medicine. “The World Honored One” is
the World Honored One; or “The World Honored One is the one who has the
taste of righteousness, the taste of Dharma, the taste of liberation,
the higher precepts, the higher mind, and the higher wisdom”; The one
who has attained is the World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is
the one who has attained the eight liberations, the eight supreme
places, and the ninth abode" is the World Honored One; or "the World
Honored One is the practice of the ten thoughts, the ten bases, and so
on. One who is a partaker of the perfection of breath and mindfulness,
and the perfection of impurity, is the World Honored One; ' is the World
Honored One; or "The World Honored One is a partaker of the ten
Tathagata powers, the four fearlessness, the four unhindered
understanding, the six supernatural powers, and the six enlightened
dharmas." What was given by father; not by brothers; not by sisters; not
by friends; not by relatives; not by ascetic and brahmins; not by gods,
this is what the Buddha and the World Honored One gave Liberation: Under
the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition of all knowledge and
wisdom, and the testimony of Anli (pseudonym), the World-Honored One."
is [World-Honored One: "Sariputta!"].
　　"According to no one's seat, the place to sleep is sure": "The place
where he sits is called the seat: bed, chair, cushion, cushion, leather
cushion, straw cushion, leaf cushion, straw cushion. House, dwelling,
Half-roofed houses, high-rises, flat houses, and caves are called
sleeping places. In the sitting and sleeping places, inappropriate forms
of seeing are discarded, isolated, and far away; inappropriate voices
are heard... (Abbreviated in the middle) Inappropriate five In order to
be abandoned, isolated, and far away, that sitting and lying place he
clings to, bends toward clinging, completely clings, and orients toward
clinging.” For clinging to the unoccupied seat, the lying place is certain.
　　"The Dharma of One Who Wants to Be Enlightened": "Enlightenment is
called wisdom, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, Dharma-choosing
enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana, and right view in the
four realms. Those who want to be enlightened, those who want to be
enlightened, those who want to be awakened, those who want to be
enlightened, those who want to gain, those who want to reach, those who
want to bear witness." Those who want to be enlightened.
　　"According to the Dharma": "What is the sense of following the
Dharma? The right trail, the trail of obedience, the trail that is not
reversed, the trail that does not contradict the trail, the trail of its
meaning, the trail of the Dharma, the trail of Those who are perfect in
precepts, guard the gates on the roots, know the right amount of food
and drink, and specialize in sobriety, mindfulness, and clear
understanding are called the Dharma of Awakening.
　　"I will say that for you as one who knows": "'that', according to
the Dharma. 'I will say', I will say, I will explain, I will teach, I
will inform, I will establish, I will I will reveal, I will analyze, I
will clarify, I will explain. "Like those who know", such as those who
know; such as those who understand, those who know, those who know
others, those who know for sure, those who penetrate, not hearsay, not
hearsay , not from inheritance, not from the teachings of scriptures,
not from logical inferences, not from reasoning, not from theoretical
contemplation, not from insights accepted after contemplation, but the
Dharma that has been personally verified and self-realized by myself, I
will say That." For I will say that for you as one who knows.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Sariputta!'] For those who are bored, it is
safe to follow the unoccupied seat, the place to lie down, and
　　　the Dharma for those who wish to become enlightened, I will be for
you as one who knows. Say that."
　　199. The wise should not be afraid of the five kinds of terrors,
monks with mindfulness and bounded conduct:
　　　against horseflies, moths, and snakes, against human contact, and
against quadrupeds.
　　"The wise should not be afraid of the five terrors": "The wise are
the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise. The
wise should not be afraid of the five terrors Be afraid, should not
tremble, should not be afraid, should not be afraid, should not be
afraid, should not come to fear, should be one who is not afraid, one
who is not frightened, one who does not panic, one who does not flee,
one who has given up fear and fear , has been erected from the hair of
the body." For the five horrors, the wise should not be afraid.
　　"Bhikkhus with mindfulness and bounded conduct": "'Bhikkhus', monks
who are good and ordinary, or monks who have learned. 'Those who have
mindfulness' are mindful in four ways: when practicing mindfulness on
the body He is mindful when he is abiding, he is mindful of feeling...
(abbreviated in the middle) is mindful... When one is practising mindful
of the Dharma, he is called mindful. "Limited practice." , there are
four kinds of limits: the limit of abstinence, the limit of root
self-control, the limit of those who know the right amount of food and
drink, and the limit of specializing in sobriety.
　　What is the limit of abstinence and self-control? Here, the monk is
the one who keeps the precepts and lives in the self-control of the
Palotam fork. He is protected by right actions and behaviors. He sees
terrible things in the small sins, and learns after receiving and
upholding them. When he examines the state of internal decay, he
observes the inner limit of discipline and self-control, and does not
break the boundary. This is the limit of discipline and self-control.
　　What is the limit of root self-control? Here, after seeing the form
with the eyes, the bhikkhu does not become the grasper of the
appearance, the grasper of the subtle appearance... (Abbreviated in the
middle) achieves self-control on the basis of the eye. After hearing the
sound with the ear... smelling the smell with the nose After that...
After tasting the taste with the tongue... After the touch with the
body... After knowing the Dharma with consciousness, I will not become a
grasper of appearances or a grasper of subtle appearances. For that
reason, greed and worry are evil and unwholesome. It will flow into the
one who lives in the mind without self-control. He moves towards
self-control for that, guards the mind, and comes to self-control on the
mind. When examining the burning method, he practices the inner limit of
self-control and does not break the boundary, which is the limit of
self-control What
　　is the limit of those who know the right amount of food? Here, monks
eat food after careful examination: "Neither for pleasure, nor for
intoxication, not for adornment (good figure), not for solemnity, but
only for the survival of this body. , to survive, to stop harm, to
support the holy life, and like this, I will fight off previous
feelings, and not cause new feelings to arise, there will be my
existence, and a state of innocence, and well-being. When examining the
axles of Oiled, sore coverage [SN.35.239
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.239>], the parable of
the son's meat [ SN.12.63
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.63>], when he
practiced internally, he knew the limits of those who knew the right
amount of food, and did not break the limits. This was the limit of
those who knew the right amount of food.
　　What is Concentration Sober Boundary? Here, the bhikkhu walks and
sits peacefully during the day to purify the mind from obstacles. On the
first night, by walking and sitting quietly, the mind is purified from
obstacles. In the middle of the night, with the right flank as a lion
lying down, with the [left] foot placed on the [right] foot, and after
thinking about it, you will be mindful and rightly aware. In the last
night, after getting up, walk and sit quietly to purify the mind from
obstacles [ SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>]. When examining
Xianshan and staying overnight [ MN.131
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=131>], he practiced the
inner limit of sobriety, and did not break the boundary, which was the
limit of sobriety. "A monk with mindfulness and bounded conduct.
　　"To horseflies, moths, and snakes": "A gadfly is called a horsefly.
All flies are called moths. For what reason are all flies called moths?
They repeatedly fly up and bite, and for this reason all flies are
called moths. Snakes (crawlers) are called snakes." For horseflies,
moths, and snakes.
　　"Contact with people, with quadrupeds": "The thieves and hooligans
who do or prepare to do bad things are called contact with people. They
may ask bhikkhus questions, they may join in discussions, they may
abuse, slander, anger, To irritate, injure, afflict, kill, annoy, or
injure. Any affliction that comes from a person is a human touch.
"Four-legged animals", lion, tiger, leopard, bear, dog, wolf , wild
bulls, elephants, they will crush, eat, hurt, afflict, kill, annoy, or
injure bhikkhus. From vexation from quadrupeds to the terror of any
quadruped.” Contact, to quadrupeds.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"There are five kinds of fears that the wise should not be afraid
of, monks with mindfulness and bounded conduct:
　　　against horseflies, moths, and snakes, against human contact, and
against quadrupeds."
　　200. Don't be afraid of other dharma masters: even after seeing
their many terrible things,
　　　you should conquer all dangers: the good follow the seeker.
　　"You should not be afraid of other Dharma people: even after seeing
their many horrible things": "Apart from beings who follow the Dharma,
anyone who is not a believer in the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha is called
other Dharma people. They may Asking a question of a monk, he may join
in a discussion, or he may insult, slander, provoke, anger, hurt, annoy,
kill, annoy, hurt. Many of them are terrible and he should not tremble
when he sees or hears them, and he should not tremble. (strong
trembling), should not be trembling (strong trembling), should not be
afraid, should not be afraid, should not be afraid (upward fear), should
not be afraid (pervasive fear), should not be afraid, should not come to
fear, should be Those who are not afraid, who are not frightened, who
are not panicked, who are not fleeing, should abide in those who have
given up their fear and fear, and who have stood up from their hair."
For the sake of other dharmas, you should not be afraid either: even
after seeing many of them terrifying.
　　"More perils should be conquered: the good follows the seeker":
"More, there are those that should be conquered, those that should be
defeated, those that should be crushed, those that should be brought to
an end, those that should be crushed. There are two kinds of perils:
obvious perils and hidden perils... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
also the peril of "dwelling there". The path that is reversed, the path
that does not contradict, the path that is as it is meant to be...
(Abbreviated in the middle) The Eightfold Noble Path, Nirvana, and the
Path leading to Nirvana, to seek, to seek, and to seek all dangers
should be conquered, should be To be defeated, to be crushed, to be
ended, to be crushed." For all the more perils should be conquered: the
follower of the good.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"You should not be afraid of other Dharma practitioners: even after
seeing their many terrible things,
　　　you should conquer all dangers: the good will follow the seeker."
　　201. To be touched by sickness and hunger, one should endure cold
and hot,
　　　He who is homeless is touched by all kinds of things, and he
should be strong in vitality and effort.
　　"touched by sickness, touched by hunger": "touched by sickness is
called sickness touch. can be touched, tormented, combined, possessed by
sickness contact: can be touched, tormented, combined, possessed by eye
disease; Disease...by nose disease...by tongue disease...by body
disease...(middle abbreviated) touched, tortured, combined, possessed by
the contact of horsefly, mosquito, wind, sun and snake. Hunger is called
hunger. It will be touched by hunger, Tormented, combined, possessed."
To be touched by sickness, by hunger.
　　"Cold and heat should be endured": ""Cold" exists because of two
factors: cold due to internal excitement, or cold due to external
seasons. "Heat", there are two factors: heat exists due to internal
excitement, or heat exists due to external seasons. ' for cold and heat.
"Should endure", should be those who endure cold, heat, hunger, thirst,
and contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun snakes, should be
insulted, the occurrence of slander, body-related suffering, intense,
violent, Strongly unpleasant, unpleasant, deadly resisters and the like.
"Because we should endure cold and heat.
　　"He who is homeless is touched by those things": "'He is touched by
those', 'touched by sickness, hunger, cold, heat, torment, union,
possessed.' For he is touched by those. ', 'will be touched, tortured,
combined, possessed by all kinds of actions.' Because he is touched by
those kinds of things. 'Homeless', 'Consciousness does not have the
opportunity to do it.' For the homeless [≃ SN. 22.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.3>]. Or, 'Do not do
evil in body, in speech, or in intention.' For the homeless." For the
homeless he was touched by those kinds of things.
　　"Energy, effort, he should make it firm": the activation of the
vitality of the mind, diligence, effort, courage, diligence, exertion,
diligence, undying, fortitude, persistence, valor without slackening,
volition that does not give up, not neglect The state of responsibility,
the support of responsibility, vitality, vitality root, vitality force,
right effort are called vitality, effort. "Energy, effort, he should be
firm": "Energy, effort, he should be firm, he should be firm, should be
a firm holder, an established holder." For vitality and effort, he
should be firm.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Being touched by sickness and hunger, he should endure cold and
heat. He who is homeless is touched by those kinds of things　　.
　　　He should be strong with energy and effort." Kindness reaches the
cowardly and the strong. 　　　Whenever the mind is cloudy, he should
know, and he should drive away from the "dark side". 　　"You should not
steal, you should not speak vainly": "You should not steal," "Here,
after a bhikkhu has given up what is not given and taken, he should be
one who takes away from what is not given, one who takes what is given,"
What is given should be expected; one should live not to steal, but to
be pure.” As one should not steal. “Speak vainly.” “Here, after a monk
has cut off his lies, he should Those who lie, those who speak truth,
those who are true, those who are trustworthy, those who can be trusted,
those who do not deceive the world.”” Because one should not steal and
speak in vain. 　　"The weak and the strong should be approached with
kindness": "kindness", all living beings have kindness, compassion,
kindness, compassion, sympathy, compassion, altruism, compassion, no
malice, no hatred, no Hate, good-rooted person. The "cowardly" belong to
those who tremble, whose craving is not given up, and those whose fear
is not given up. For what reason are they called cowards? They tremble,
fear, terror, fear, come to fear, and for this reason they are called
cowards. The "strong" belongs to those who are trembling, whose craving
has been abandoned, and those whose fear has been abandoned. For what
reason are they called the strong? They do not tremble, they do not
fear, they do not fear, they do not fear, they do not come to fear, and
for this reason they are called the strong. "The weak and the strong
should be reached with loving-kindness": "On the weak and the strong one
should be touched and filled with loving-kindness, with loving-kindness,
vast, enlarged, immeasurable, and without resentment. A heart without
malice pervades the whole world and dwells." To reach out to the weak
and the strong with loving-kindness.




　　"Whenever the mind is cloudy he should know": "Whenever" means
whenever. "Mind", all mind, mind, mind, heart (visceral), white
(pervasive), mind, mind base, mind root, consciousness, consciousness
aggregate, corresponding to that consciousness world. Acting evilly with
the body, the mind becomes cloudy, turbulent, moving, slamming,
turbulent, swirling, and restless; acting evilly with words... hatred...
delusion... anger... resentment... to hide evil... to domineering... to
jealousy... to be stingy... to deceive... to be cunning... to be
stubborn... to be passionate... Slow...with extreme slowness...with
humility...with ease...with all pollution...with all evil deeds...with
all afflictions...with all scorching heat...with all heat and
affliction...with all unwholesome fabrications The mind becomes cloudy,
churning, moving, bumping, fluctuating, whirling, restless. "When the
mind is cloudy, he should know": "The cloudy state of the mind, he
should know, should understand, should distinguish, should be sure,
should be penetrated." For whenever the mind is cloudy, he should know .
　　"He should drive away from the 'dark side'": "darkness", that is the
kin of the demon, the ruler of darkness, the one who reaches the limit,
the demon, the looser. "The dark side is the devil's side, the devil's
net, the devil's hook, the devil's food, the devil's realm, the devil's
abode, the devil's place, the devil's bond, he should give up, he should
drive away, he should end, It should be brought to non-existence." In
this way he should drive away from the "dark side". Or, "The dark side
is the devil side, the unwholesome side, the one that produces
suffering, the one that leads to the result of suffering, the one that
leads to hell, the one that leads to the realm of beasts, and the one
that leads to the realm of hungry ghosts. He should abandon it, drive it
away, end it, and make it happen. Go to non-existence." This is how he
should drive away from the "dark side".
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"You should not steal, you should not speak vainly, you should reach
out to the weak and the strong with loving-kindness, and
　　　whenever your mind is cloudy, he should know it, and he should
drive away from the 'dark side'. 203.
　　Should not fall into the grip of angry, very slow, after dug up
their roots they should stand, the
　　　next cute or unlovable, the survivors should indeed conquer.
　　"Should not fall into the control of anger, extremely slow":
"anger", that is the hatred, hostility of the heart... (abbreviated in
the middle) brutal anger, rage, unpleasantness of the heart. "Extremely
slow", here, a certain type of people despise others either by birth, or
by surname... (abbreviated in the middle) or by something. "Should not
fall into the control of anger and slowness": "Should not fall into the
control of anger and slowness, anger and slowness should be discarded,
driven away, brought to an end, brought to non-existence. "For not to
fall into angry, extremely slow control.
　　"Have their roots dug up and stand": What are the roots of anger?
Ignorance is the root, unreasonable attention is the root, selfishness
is the root, shamelessness is the root, lack of guilt is the root,
delusion is the root, this is the root of anger. What is an extremely
slow root? Ignorance is the root, unreasonable attention is the root, I
am slow is the root, shamelessness is the root, no guilt is the root,
delusion is the root, this is the root of extreme slowness. "When you
have dug up their roots, you should stand": "The roots of anger and
slowness are dug up, pulled out, pulled out, pulled out, pulled out,
removed, completely removed, discarded, driven away After the end of the
work, after it has come to non-existence, it should stand, it should
stand completely.” After digging out their roots, they should stand.
　　"Second, the lovely or the unlovable, the victor ought to conquer
indeed": "second", the succession of sentences; the connection of
sentences; the perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the
connection of words; this is the order of sentences, for "Secondly".
"Lovely", there are two kinds of lovely: sentient beings or all
formations. What are lovely beings? Here, whoever they are to him who
desires to benefit, or who desires profit, or who desires the yoke to be
secure, is mother, or father, or brother, or sister, or son, or
daughter, or friend, or colleague, or kin, or Those who are related by
blood, these are lovely beings. What are lovely things? The desirable
forms, the desirable sounds...the smells...the tastes...the touches,
these are lovely formations. "Unlovable", there are two kinds of
unlovable: living beings or formations. What are unlovable beings? Here,
whoever they think is not beneficial to him, who is not profitable, who
is not yoke-free, and who is trying to kill him, these are unlovable
beings. What are the unlovable actions? Unpleasant forms, unpleasant
sounds... smells... tastes... touches, these are unlovable actions.
"Indeed" is the word of decisiveness (always), the word of doubt, the
word of confidence, the word of indulgence, the word of doubt, the word
of command, the word of no error [, the word of no failure], the word of
certainty slang, "indeed". "Secondly, the lovely or the unlovable, the
victor should indeed conquer": "The lovely, the unlovable; the
desirable, the unpleasant; the pleasant, the bitter; the joy, the
sorrow; the desirable, the unpleasant. What is desirable, the conqueror
should conquer, or the conqueror should conquer." The next most lovable
or unlovable, the victor should indeed conquer.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"It should not fall into the grip of rage, slowness, and after
digging out their roots, they should stand,
　　　and then what is lovable or unlovable, the victors should indeed
conquer."
　　204. Wisdom in There is good joy in the front and back. We should
suppress those dangers, we
　　　should conquer the unhappiness lying on the edge, and we should
conquer the four methods of weeping.
　　"Wisdom is placed in the front and there is good joy": "'Wisdom',
that is wisdom, understanding, simple choice, investigation, and choice
of the law... (Abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, right view.
'Wisdom is placed in the front and back', here , A certain class of
people walks with wisdom in front and back, wisdom as the flag, wisdom
as the flag, wisdom as the increase, more choices, more simple choices,
more deep consideration (Sri Lanka version), more complete and deep
consideration, for living in Those who understand, those who have that
character, those who are more of that, those who value that, those who
take that as their object, those who strive toward that, those who lean
toward that, those who overcome and understand, those who increase their
strengths, this is how wisdom is placed before and after Or ,
　　"When walking, he knows: "I walk." Or, when standing, he knows: "I
stand." Or, when sitting, he knows: "I sit." Or, when lying down As he
moves, he knows, "I am lying down." Or, he knows it as the body moves.
』 This is also the wisdom placed in front of and behind.
　　Or, "A wise actor when advancing and retreating; a wise actor when
looking forward and backward; a wise actor when [a limb] is flexed and
stretched; a wise actorwhen holding a coat, bowl, and garment Doers;
Doers of Right Knowledge when Drinking, Eating, Chewing, and Tasting;
Doers of Right Knowledge when Urinating, Urinating, and Defecation . [
MN.10 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=10>] 』This is also
the way Hui is placed in the front and rear.
　　"Good joy", the joy that arises because of the Buddha's
recollection, and joy is "good joy". Dharma reciting... Sangha
reciting... precepts reciting... alms reciting... heaven reciting...
in-breathing reciting... death reciting... body mindfulness reciting...
silence reciting [ AN.1.297
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=1.297>] And joy arises,
joy is 'good joy'. "There is good joy when wisdom is placed in the front.
　　"Those dangers should be suppressed": "Crisis", there are two kinds
of dangers: obvious dangers and hidden dangers...(Medium abbreviated)
These are called obvious dangers...(Medium abbreviated) These are called
hidden dangers ... (Middle omitted) This is also a danger to "dwelling
there". "Those dangers should be quelled": "Those dangers he should
quell, he should win, he should defeat, he should overwhelm, he should
end, he should crush."
　　"Should conquer the unhappiness lying on the edge": "'Unhappiness',
all those who are unhappy, unhappy, unhappy, extremely unhappy,
dissatisfied, and terrifying. "Lying on the edge" , in the border
dwellings, or in a certain good practice, unhappiness should be
conquered, he should be conquered, he should be crushed, he should end,
and he should be crushed." For the unhappiness that should be conquered
in the borderlands.
　　"The four ways of weeping should be conquered": "The four ways of
weeping should be conquered, they should be conquered, they should be
conquered, they should be overwhelmed, they should end, and they should
be crushed." There are four ways of weeping that should be conquered.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"There is good joy after wisdom is placed in the front. It should
conquer those dangers. It
　　　should conquer the unhappiness of lying on the edge. It should
conquer the four methods of weeping."
　　205. What will I eat or what I will eat? Where will it be eaten?
Really bad sleepor where will I sleep today?
　　　These seekers who will cry, should be subdued by scholars:
homeless walkers.
　　"What shall I eat or where shall I eat": "'What shall I eat', 'What
shall I eat: rice, or porridge, or noodles, or fish, or meat?' for what
shall I eat." Where shall I eat', where shall I be served: in the house
of Kshatriya, or in the house of Brahmin, or in the house of Vaisha, or
in the house of Sudra?" For what shall I eat or where shall I eat? ?
　　"Sleep really badly or where will I sleep today": "Sleep badly this
night: on a plank, or on a small mat, or on a leather mat, or on a straw
mat, or on a leaf mat, or on a straw mat. Wherever the night comes, I
will sleepwell : on the bed, or on the bed, or on the rug, or on the
bolster, or in the monk's room, or in the half-roofed room, or in the
high-rise, or in the flat, or In the cave?" For really not sleeping well
or where will I sleep today?
　　"Those who will weep": "'These quests' are two kinds of quests
related to feeding, and two kinds of quests related to shelter. 'Those
who will weep', those who will cry are those who will weep." For those
who will weep Searching.
　　"Scholars should be subdued: homeless practitioners": "Scholars",
what is the reason for being called scholars? "He learns" is a scholar.
What does he study? He learns to increase morality, he also learns to
increase mind, and he also learns to increase wisdom. What is learning
to increase the precepts... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the
learning of increasing wisdom. These three things, he learns when he is
facing (noticing); when he knows...when he sees...when he examines...he
learns when his mind is established (determined); he learns when he
overcomes the solution with faith; when he energizes and strives ...when
mindfulness arises...when the mind is settled (concentrated)...when he
knows with wisdom he learns; when the realization should be realized he
learns; when omniscience should be known...when When abandoning what
should be abandoned... When practising what should be practiced... When
witnessing what should be witnessed he learns, practices, practices
well, and after upholding he learns. For this reason it is called a
scholar. "In order to tame, eliminate, let go, calm, cut off thoughts,
and stop, he should learn to increase morality, he should also learn to
increase mind, and he should learn to increase wisdom. These three
lessons should be learned when facing (noticing) ; When you know...
(Abbreviated in the middle) when the testimony should be testified, it
should be learned, practiced, practiced well, accepted and upheld." For
scholars, it should be subdued.
　　"Homeless traveler", what is a home traveler? Here, a certain type
of person has the obstacles of the family, the obstacles of the group
(the crowd)...the obstacles of the shelter...the obstacles of the
clothes...the obstacles of feeding...the obstacles of the shelter...the
obstacles of the patients' needs and medical necessities, this is home
traveler. What is a homeless walker? Here, bhikkhus do not have the
obstacles of the family, the obstacles of the group (congregation)...the
obstacles of the abode...the obstacles of the clothes...the obstacles of
giving food...the obstacles of the dwelling place...the obstacles of the
patients' need for materials and medical necessities. homeless traveler.
　　"Go to Magadha; go to Khosala, and some of them in the region of
Vajra walk
　　　like wild deer without a place, and the monks live without a
place." [ SN.9.4 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=9.4>]
　　"Those who do good are good, and those who do good are Well,
homeless abodes are always good,
　　　and it is the ascetic nature of nothingness to ask for skillful
conduct.” [Thag. 1.36]
　　For the learner one should subdue: the homeless practitioner.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"What shall I eat or where shall I eat? It is true that I cannot
sleep well or where shall I sleep today?
　　　These seekers who will be weeping, the scholar should tame: the
homeless wanderer."
　　206. Having obtained food and clothing at the right time, he should
know the righteousness of the right amount and contentment here,
　　　he is the guardian of those, and he is a self-controller in the
village, and he should not speak rude words even when provoked.
　　"After getting food and clothing at the right time": "food", rice,
porridge, noodles, fish, meat. "Clothes", there are six types of
clothing: linen, cotton, silk, sweaters, burlap, and hemp. "After
getting food and clothing at the right time": "After getting clothing,
after getting food: not by trick, not by chat, not by suggestion, not by
sarcasm, not by benefit for other benefits, not by wood offering, Don't
use bamboo, don't use leaves, don't use flowers, don't use shower, don't
use washing powder, don't use clay, don't use wood, don't use face wash
Things, not by flattery, not by word of mouth, not by flattery, not by
backbiting (Sri Lankan version), not by homesteading, not by animals,
not by astrology, not by envoy, not by dispatch To make, not to run
errands, not to use medical treatment [, not to use new work], not to
give food in return, not to give alms, after he has rightfully obtained,
obtained, obtained, and possessed After, after receiving." After getting
food and clothing at the right time.
　　"He should know the right amount, which is satisfied here": "'He
should know the right amount', he should know the right amount in two
ways: from receiving or using. How is the right amount from receiving?
Even if there are only some given , out of pity [donor] family, guard
[donor] family, pity [donor] family he accepts; although there are many
things given, he accepts only the clothes that protect the body, and the
food that protects the abdomen. Know the right amount. How to know the
right amount from use? Use
　　clothes after careful inspection: only for cold defense, heat
defense, defense against contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind,
scorching snakes, and only for the purpose of covering the genitals. Use
after careful
　　inspection Giving food: neither for entertainment, nor for pride,
nor for decoration, norfor solemnity , but only for the survival and
survival of this body, to stop harm, to support the holy life, like
this, I will repel the previous feelings, and not causing new sensations
to arise, there will be ego existence, a state of no fault, and a
happydwelling .
　　After careful inspection, the residence is used: it is only for the
defense against cold, for the defense against heat, for the defense
against contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, winds, scorching sun and
snakes, only for the purpose of eliminating the dangers of weather
(seasons), and sitting aloneand having fun.
　　The patient's needs and medical necessities are used after rational
inspection: only for the defense of the aroused feelings, for the best
state of being freefrom hatred . [ MN.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=2>]
　　Such is the right amount known from use. "He should know the right
amount", "From these two aspects he should know, should know, should
know, and should penetrate the right amount. ' For he should know the
right amount.
　　"The righteousness of being satisfied here", here, a bhikkhu is the
one who is satisfied by whatever clothes, and who praises the
satisfaction of whatever clothes, and who does not come to inappropriate
wicked requests because of clothes, and who does not have clothes after
they are not. Do not tremble, and receive clothes without being bound,
without being dazed, without guilt, having seen the troubledland, and
being used without wisdom [ SN
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=16.1>. Praise oneself and
do not despise him, and whoever is there skilled, not lazy, wise and
mindful, is called a monk who dwells in the highest holy caste of the
past [ DN.33 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=33>/ AN.4.28
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.28>].
　　Again, monks! Bhikkhus are satisfied by whatever food is given, and
are the ones who praise the satisfaction of whatever food is given, and
do not come to inappropriate evil requests because of food, and do not
tremble when they do not get food, and are not stunned when they receive
food. Binding, not being dazed, guilt-free, seeing trouble, being used
beyond wisdom, and neither praising oneself nor despising him with
whatever satisfaction in feeding, and whoever is skilled there, Lazy,
wise, and mindful, this is called the monk who lived in the highest holy
caste of the past.
　　Again, monks! Satisfied with whatever abode, and praised for the
satisfaction of whatever abode, and do not come to inappropriate
wickedness because of abode, and do not tremble when not given abode,
and are not bound after obtaining abode without being dazed, without
guilt, seeing trouble, and being used out of wisdom, and neither
praising oneself nor despising him with the satisfaction of any
dwelling, where he is skilled and not lazy , Knowing, and facing the
mind, this is called the monk who lived in the highest holy caste of the
past.
　　Again, monks! A bhikkhu is a person who is willing to give up, a
person who loves to give up; a person who is happy to practice, and a
person who loves to practice, and he is not a person who is willing to
give up, and a person who loves to abandon; he is a person who is happy
to practice, and he who loves to practice praises himself. Whoever does
not despise him, whoever is there skilled, not lazy, wise and mindful,
is called a monk who lives in the highest holy caste of the past.
"Because he should know the right amount of righteousness and be
satisfied here.
　　"He is the guardian on those, the self-governor in the village":
"'He is the guardian on those', 'He is the guardian, the protector on
the clothes, the food, the shelter, the necessities of the sick, the
medical necessities , guardian, protector.' Thus he is the guardian of
those. Or, 'He is the guardian, the protector, the guardian, the
protector of all places.' So also he is the guardian of those.
　　"In the village is the self-controller," in the village is the
self-control, the prudent, the prudent, the guardian, the protector, the
guardian, the protector." For he is the guardian on those and the
self-controlled in the village walker.
　　"Even when provoked, he should not speak rude words": "When he is
stigmatized, reprimanded, slandered, annoyed, scolded, insulted, he
should not speak rudely and rudely, he should not Back to arguing,
should not be scolded abusive, should not be provoked, should not be
back to the arguing [ SN.7.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=7.2>], should not
quarrel, should not argue, should not argue, should not argue, should
not argue There should be disagreement, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel,
quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel, quarrel , has
abstained from, has abstained from, has renounced, has left, has been
liberated, has been freed from bondage, he should abide with a mind free
from restrictions.” Even when provoked, he should not speak harsh words.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Having given food and clothing at the right time, he should know
the righteousness of the right amount, to be satisfied here,
　　　he is the guardian of those above, and he is a self-controller in
the village, and he should not speak rudely even when provoked. Evil
words."
　　207. Those who have downward-looking eyes and those who do not
wander, those who devote themselves to meditation, and those who are
more awake, those who are
　　　calm and who are in a state of meditation, should renounce the
intention of thinking and regret.
　　"Eyes down and those who don't wander": "'What is the confusion of
the eyes? Here, a certain class of monks are those who have restless
eyes, those who have restless eyes: "What should be seen becomes unseen,
what should be passed over Be the one who sees." From garden to garden,
from garden to garden, from village to village, from town to town, from
city to city, from country to country, from place to place, he saw the
long procession, Participating in irregular marches, this is confusing
eyes.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor in the lay house, a walker in the
streets, he walks unprotected: he walks watching the elephant, the
horse, the chariot, the infantry, the woman, the man, Looking at the
boys, looking at the men and women, looking at the market, looking at
the door of the house, looking up, looking down, looking around in all
directions, this is also the eye confusion.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he becomes a grasper
of features and a grasper of subtle features. For that reason, when
there is no protection in the root of the eyes, the evil and unwholesome
dharmas of greed and worry will flow in, and he will not follow them.
And action, without protecting the root of the eye, without attaining
self-control [ SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>] on the root of
the eye, is also the confusion of the eyes.
　　Or as some recluses and brahmins receive food from their venerable
teachers, they live in the practitioners who perform and watch like
this, namely: dancing, singing, music, drama, ancient talk, hand bells,
cymbals, drums, magic, iron ball play , bamboo sticks, stunts, elephant
fights, horse fights, buffalo fights, bull fights, goat fights, ram
fights, rooster fights, quail fights, stick fights, fist fights,
wrestling, drills, parades, military formations, military parades, etc.
This is also confusing to the eyes.
　　How is it that the eyes are not confused? Here, a certain type of
bhikkhu is not a person with restless eyes, a person who does not have
restless eyes: "What should be seen becomes unseen, and what should be
crossed becomes seen." Not from garden to garden, from garden to garden,
from village to garden Villages do not go from town to town, from city
to city, from country to country, or from place to place. It is not for
the sake of seeing the practitioners of long processions and irregular
processions. This is not confusing to the eyes.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor in the lay family, a walker in the
streets, he walks defensively: he does not look at the elephants as he
walks... (abbreviated in the middle) does not look around and walks in
all directions, so that the eyes are not confused.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he does not become a
grasper of the form... (abbreviated in the middle) to achieve
self-control on the root of the eye, so that the eyes are not confused.
　　Or, for example, some recluses and brahmins receive food from their
venerable teachers... (abbreviated in the middle) military parades,
etc., are away from the practitioners who watch and perform like this,
so they are not confused. ' for the eyes down.
　　"With those who do not wander", what is wandering? Here, a certain
type of bhikkhu is a wanderer, with wandering characteristics: from
garden to garden... (abbreviated in the middle) He is a practitioner who
sees long processions and irregular processions in various ways, which
is wandering.
　　Or a monk is a wanderer in the monastery, with wandering
characteristics: without the cause of profit, without the cause of the
reason, the ground is lifted, and there is no peace of mind from the
monk's room to the monk's room, from the residence... (abbreviated in
the middle). Also wandering.
　　"With those who don't wander," wandering should be abandoned, driven
away, brought to an end, and brought to non-existence. He should have
been separated from wandering, abstained, abstained, renounced, left,
liberated, freed from fetters, he should live free from limitations, he
should be a person who enjoys sitting alone, loves sitting alone The
practitioner, the practitioner of inner stillness, the one who does not
despise the Zen practitioner, the one who has the contemplation, the one
who enriches the empty house, the one who meditates, the one who loves
Zen, the practitioner of singleness, and the one who respects his own
interests. ' for the eyes down and not wandering.
　　"Those who are devoted to Zen belong to the more awake": "Those who
are devoted to Zen are those who are devoted to Zen in two ways: 'Being
yoke, strongly yoke, and yoke toward the yoke for the arising of the
unborn first jhana' , fully yoke-oriented, or for the third jhāna that
has not arisen the second jhāna... (abbreviated in the middle)... for
the arising of the fourth jhāna to become yoke, strongly yoke, toward
the upper yoke , fully towards the upper yoke." This is devoted to
jhāna. Or, "Having arisen the first jhāna he practiced, practiced,
practiced a lot, or had arisen the second jhāna... the third jhāna...
had arisen the fourth jhāna he practiced , practice, do more." This is
also devoted to meditation.
　　"Belonging to the more awake", here, during the day, the bhikkhu
walks and sits peacefully to purify the mind from obstacles. Obstruction
method purification. In the middle of the night, use the right flank as
a lion to lie down, put the [left] foot on the [right] foot, and think
about it. By walking and sitting quietly, the mind is purified from
obstacles. [SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>]" is devoted to
Zen and belongs to the more awake.
　　"Being in a state of meditation after starting to be calm":
"peaceful", that is in the fourth jhāna, peace, non-caring,
spectatorship, stillness of mind, equality of mind, tranquil state of
mind, neutral state of mind. "The state of samādhi" is the stillness of
the mind, stability, stability, undisturbed, steady mind, samatha,
concentration, concentration, and right concentration. "Being in a state
of tranquility after starting to be calm": "On the fourth jhāna, after
starting to be calm, it becomes a state of one state of mind, the mind
is not chaotic, and the mind is stable." It is a state of entering into
a state of concentration after starting to be calm.
　　"He should renounce the intention to seek, regret": "Thinking",
there are nine kinds of seeking: desire seeking, malicious seeking, harm
seeking, personal seeking, national seeking, immortality seeking,
seeking related to sympathy for others, and seeking for benefit and
respect The quest of fame, the quest of not being despised, these are
called the nine quests. For Yu Xun, desiring is intention; for malicious
Xun, malicious thinking is intention; Or, for thinking, seeking, and
thinking, ignorance is intention; inappropriate intention is intention;
I am slow is intention; worthy is intention;
　　"Regret", the inaction of the hands (evil deeds) is regretted, the
inaction of the feet is also regretted, the inaction of the hands and
feet is also regretted, the inappropriate is thought (considered) as
appropriate, the appropriate is thought of as not Properly, the sinless
is thought of as sinful, and the sinful is thought of as sinless, and
any such regret, path of regret, state of regret, regret of heart,
confusion of mind, is called regret.
　　Furthermore, regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind arise
from two factors: what is done and what is not done. How does what is
done and what is not done cause regret, regret in the heart, and
confusion in the mind? "I did evil deeds in body, but I did not do good
deeds in body." He had regrets, regrets in mind, confusion in mind;
speech and evil deeds were done by me... I did evil deeds in mind...
"Killing was done by me. I did it, and the abstinence from killing was
not done by me." He had regrets, regrets in the heart, confusion in the
mind; taking without giving was done by me... licentiousness was done by
me... lies were done by me... I made disparate words... I made foul
language... I made profanity... Greedy made me... Malicious I made... "I
made wrong views, but right views didn't make them. ." He produces
regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind, and thus regret, regret
of mind, confusion of mind arises from what is done and what is not done.
　　Or, "I am not a complete practitioner in morality." He generates
regret, regret of mind, confusion of mind; "I am not one who guards the
gate in terms of the faculties."..."I am not one who knows the right
amount of food and drink."… ..."I am not a practitioner of
sobriety."..."I do not possess mindfulness and clear knowledge."..."The
four mindfulness-absences have not been practised by me."..."The four
righteous efforts have not been practised by me."..."The four spiritual
feet I have not practiced."..."The five faculties have not been
practiced by me."..."The five powers have not been practiced by
me."..."The seven factors of enlightenment have not been practiced by
me."..."The eightfold path has not been practiced by me. Practice."..."I
have not fully understood suffering."..."I have not given up the causes
of suffering."..."I have not practiced the path."..."I have not
witnessed cessation." Heart regret, mind confusion. "He should cut off
the intention to think, regret": "The intention to seek and think and
regret He should cut off, cut off, destroy, cut off, should give up,
should drive away, should end, should bring it to non-existence ." For
he should renounce the intention of thinking, regret.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"He who has his eyes down and who does not wander, who is devoted to
meditation, belongs to the more awake
　　　state, and who is in a state of samādhi after he begins to calm
down, should renounce the intention of thinking and regret."
　　208. Sometimes urged by words Those who read should rejoice, the
desolation on the same BrahmanHe should destroy,
　　　he should utter good words [but] not out of bounds, and he should
not intend for people to dispute the law.
　　"Those who think when urged by words should rejoice": "Provide", the
teacher, or Ajali, or the equivalent of the teacher, or the equivalent
of Ajali, or friends, or acquaintances, or close ones, or companions
scold: " Xueyou! This is not suitable for you; this is what you have not
achieved; this is not suitable for you; this is in your undisciplined
interest." Should rejoice, should rejoice, should want, should receive,
should hope, should pray. Such as a young woman or man who likes to
adorn his head, who has washed his head, and gets a blue lotus flower
ring, a large jasmine garland, a good thinking garland, receives it with
both hands, and puts it on the top of his head [ MN.5
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=5>] He should rejoice,
should rejoice, should Rejoice, should rejoice, should want, should
receive, should hope, should pray.
　　"As the one who points out the treasure, he who sees sin should see,
he who
　　　blames, he who is wise, and he who is wise and wise like that, he
should be close to, and whoever is close
　　　like that, is only better than evil.
　　　May he instruct, admonish May he cover the vile,
　　　who is indeed loved by the good, and not loved by the bad." [Dha.
76-77]
　　"He who thinks when urged by words should rejoice greatly, on those
who are with the holy life. He should destroy the desolation of the same
Brahman.”: “‘With the Brahman’, the same behavior, the same precepts,
the same learner. 'The desolation on the same Brahman, he should
destroy’, the state of the heart of the same Brahman, the state of the
heart, He should destroy the state of desolation that has been born.
There are five kinds of desolation [ MN.16
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=16>] he should break, and
there are three kinds of desolation [ SN.45.166
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.166>] he should also
break: the desolation of greed, the desolation of hatred, and the
desolation of ignorance. , it should be destroyed, it should be
completely destroyed." He should destroy for the desolation on the same
Brahman.
　　"He should utter good words [but] not beyond the bounds": "'He
should utter wise words, with benefits, with law, with proper timing,
with reason, with restraint, he ought to utter, ought to utter "For he
should speak kind words. "[But] do not go beyond the limit", "limits",
there are two kinds of limits: the limit of the right time and the limit
of the precept. What is the limit of the right time? The words of the
right time have passed him It should not be said, the words that have
passed the limit should not be said, the words that have passed the
right time and the limit should not be said, the words that will come at
the right time should not be said, the words that will come at the right
time should not be said, the words that will come at the right time ,
words whose bounds come he should not say.
　　"Wherever indeed comes the proper time, and he narrates beyond the
bounds,
　　　so he shall be judged to lie down like the son of a cuckoo bird."
[Jat.4.121 verse]
　　This is the proper time Boundaries. What are the boundaries of
precepts? He should not say dirty words, he should not say disgusting
words, he should not say foolish words, he should not say lies, he
should not say alienating words, he should not say harsh words He should
not speak, he should not speak, he should not speak, he should not
speak, he should not explain, he should not speak, this is the limit of
the precepts.” Because he should utter good words [but] not exceed the
limit.
　　"He should not intend to dispute the law of people": "'People' are
Kshatriya, Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, people.
Controversy, scolding, scolding, scolding Those who have no reputation,
who are not to be praised, who have lost their precepts, or who have
lost their righteous actions, or who have lost their views, or who have
lost their livelihoods, should not cause the mind to arise, should not
cause the intention to arise, and should not cause the intention to
arise.” He shouldn't have intended on people's controversial law.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"He who is mindful when urged by words should rejoice; he should
destroy the desolation among the Brahman;
　　　he should utter good words [but] not beyond the bounds; he should
not intend to argue with people ”
　　209. Furthermore, there are five kinds of defilements in the world,
and those who want to tame the mind should learn,
　　　in all forms, sounds and tastes, in smells and touches, he should
conquer greed.
　　"Going further, there are five kinds of dirt in the world": "'Zeng',
the continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the
perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of
words; this is the order of sentences, which is 'update'. kind of dust,
dust of color, dust of sound, dust of smell, dust of taste, dust of touch.
　　Greed, not dust, is called dust, and "dust" is synonymous with greed.
　　After abandoning this dust, wise men, they live in According to the
teachings of those who are free from dust.
　　Hatred and not dust are called dust... (abbreviated in the middle),
　　..., they live in the teachings of those who are free from dust.
　　Delusion and not dust are called dust... (abbreviated in the middle),
　　... ..., they dwell in the teachings of those who leave dust.
　　'In the world', in the world of suffering, in the world of men, in
the world of gods, in the world of khandha, in the world of worlds, in
the world of dharmas." For more Further, there are five kinds of dirt in
the world.
　　"Those who are mindful in order to tame their minds should learn":
"For those who are mindful, they are mindful of colors, sounds, smells,
smells, and touches. , mindfulness, mindfulness state of mindfulness,
mindfulness state, non-floating state, non-forgetting state,
[mindfulness] mindfulness, mindfulness, mindfulness,
mindfulness-enlightenment factor, the path of no fork in the road, this
is called mindfulness. Possessing, fully possessing , reaching, fully
reaching, possessing, fully possessing, possessing this thought, he is
called a mindful one. "Should learn", there are three learnings: the
learning of increasing precepts, the learning of increasing the mind,
and the learning of increasing wisdom. What is the learning of
increasing The study of precepts... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is
the study of the advanced wisdom. "Those who are mindful should learn it
in order to tame those who are mindful": "Those who are mindful are
greedy for sex, sounds, smells, tastes, and objects. In order to
control, eliminate, give up, pacify, cut off thoughts, and stop greed,
one should learn to increase morality, learn to increase mind, and learn
to increase wisdom. These three learnings should be directed towards
(notice) Study; when you know, you should study... (Abbreviated in the
middle) when the testimony should be witnessed, it should be studied, it
should be practiced, it should be practiced well, and after it is
upheld, it should be turned." For those who have thoughts in order to
control them, they should study.
　　"In forms, sounds, and tastes, in smells, and touches, he should
conquer greed." It should be conquered, it should be defeated, it should
be crushed, it should end, it should be crushed." In order to conquer
all forms, sounds and tastes, smells and touches, he must conquer greed.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Furthermore, there are five kinds of defilements in the world,
which one should learn in order to tame mindfulness,
　　　in forms, sounds, and tastes, in smells, and in touch, he should
conquer greed.
　　210. In these dharmas he should subdue desires: a bhikkhu who is
mindful and good-hearted and liberated,
　　　considers the dharma in a timely and correct manner, and becomes
single-minded he should kill the darkness. [Like this Bhagavan (saying)]
　　"In these things he should subdue desire": "in these", in forms,
sounds, smells, tastes, touches. "Desire" is the lust of lust, the lust
of lust, the pleasure of lust, the craving of lust, the love of lust,
the grasping of lust, the burning of lust, the infatuation of lust, the
overflow of lust, The yoke of desire (bonding), the grasp of desire...
(abbreviated in the middle) the cover of desire. "In these dharmas he
should subdue desires": "In these dharmas he should subdue desires, he
should expel them, he should abandon them, he should expel them, they
should end them, and they should bring them to non-existence." He should
tame desire.
　　"Bhikkhus who have thoughts and minds of good liberation":
"Bhikkhus", good ordinary monks, or monks with learning. "Those who have
mindfulness", all mindfulness, casual mindfulness... (abbreviated in the
middle) mindfulness, the enlightenment factor of mindfulness, and the
path of no fork in the road, this is called mindfulness. Possessing,
completely possessing... (abbreviated in the middle) this thought, he is
called a thoughtful one.
　　"A monk with a mind and a good mind of liberation": "The mind of
those who entered the first jhāna has been freed from all obstacles,
liberation, and good liberation, and the mind of those who entered the
second jhāna has been liberated from all seeking, liberated, and good
liberation. The mind of those who entered the third jhāna has been
liberated from joy, liberation, and good liberation; the mind of those
who entered the fourth jhāna has been liberated from pleasure and
suffering, liberated, and liberated; , There are pairs of thoughts, all
kinds of thoughts, liberation, liberation, good liberation, the mind of
those who have entered the boundless state of consciousness has already
thought from the place of emptiness and nowhere... The mind of those who
entered the place of nothingness has already thought from the boundless
place of consciousness... entered the non-thinking and non-existence The
minds of those who are not in the place of thinking have been freed from
thoughts, liberation, and good liberation from the place of nothingness,
and the minds of those who are in Sudophantview , doubt, precepts,
perception of the latent tendency of afflictions, the latent tendencyof
doubtful afflictions, and the same. The defilement of existence is
freed, liberated, and liberated, and the mind of the one who comes has
been freed from the [gross attachment of lust and greed, the attachment
of aversion,] thepotential tendency of gross lust, greed and affliction,
and the latent tendency of the affliction of aversion., and the
contamination that coexists with it, liberation, good liberation, and
the mind of the non-returner has been freed from the residual
attachments of lust and greed, the attachments of aversion, the residual
tendencies of lust and defilements, the potential tendencies of
defilements of aversion, and the defilements that coexist with them.
Freed from, liberated, freed from good, the mind of an arahant has been
freed from lust for lust, greed for immateriality, slowness, apathy,
ignorance, the latent tendency of the affliction of slowness, the latent
tendencyof the affliction of greed, the latent tendency of the
affliction of ignorance, and the contamination and externality that
coexist with it. Disengagement, liberation, good liberation from
everything. "A monk who is mindful and good at liberation.
　　"At the right time and rightly he considers the Dhamma": "at the
right time", when the mind is floating is the right time for samatha,
when the mind has entered the time is the right time for vipassana.
　　"At the right moment he concentrates, and further at other [times]
he restrains,
　　　at the right moment he delights, at the right moment he
concentrates, at the right moment he
　　　watches, he is the meditator, the master at the right moment.
　　　When is the effort When is the right time for stamina? When is the
right time for restraint? When is the right time
　　　for joy? And which is the right time for samatha? The right time
for peace 　　　of mind
　　　: How to show the meditator? When the mind
falls, when the
　　　mind is not in the mood, he should immediately rejoice.
　　　Whenever the mind is rejoicing, it becomes one that does not
shrink back and does not let 　　　go
　　　.
When in these ways one becomes satiated,
　　　After knowing the mind, you should immediately watch it.
　　　A wise person thus becomes a knower at the right time, one who
knows the right time, and one who knows the right time.
　　　He should always discern the signs of the heart. "
　　Considering the Dhamma at the right time and right": Considering the
Dhamma rightly: "All actions are impermanent." Considering the Dhamma
rightly: "All actions are suffering." Considering the Dhamma rightly:
"All dharmas are non-self."... (Abbreviated in the middle) correctly
considers the dharma: "Any collection of dharmas is the annihilation of
dharmas."
　　"He who becomes single-minded should kill the darkness.
"One-pointed", one-pointed mind, undisturbed mind, steady mind, samatha,
concentration, concentration, right concentration" is to become
one-pointed. "He should kill the darkness." The darkness of greed, the
darkness of hatred, the darkness of ignorance, the darkness of seeing,
the darkness of slowness, the darkness of pollution, the darkness of
evil deeds, the blindness of actions, the blindness of eyes, the
darkness of wisdom, the destroyer of wisdom, The annoying companion, who
does not lead to Nirvana, should kill, should kill, should abandon,
should drive away, should end, should bring it to non-existence.
　　"World Honored One", a synonym for respect. In addition, "those who
have destroyed greed" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed
hatred" are the Blessed Ones; "those who have destroyed ignorance" are
the Blessed Ones; The thorns are the Blessed One; the one who has
destroyed the pollution is the Blessed One; the one who summarizes,
analyzes, and distinguishes the magic weapon is the Blessed One; "Those
who have practised wisdom" is the World Honored One; or "The World
Honored One is close to the forests, wild forests, and frontier places
(reclining places): quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people,
living alone, suitable for sitting alone." World-Honored One; or "The
World-Honored One is a partaker of clothing, food, shelter, the
patients' needs, and medical necessities"; "The World-Honored One" is
the World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is a participator of
the four kinds of jhana, the four immeasurables, the four immaterial
forms, etc." “The World-Honored One” is the World-Honored One; or “The
World-Honored One is the one who cultivates the ten thoughts, the ten
bases, the inhalation and exhalation, and the impurity” is the
World-Honored One; The Four Spiritual Foot, Five Roots, Five Powers,
Seven Enlightenment Factors, and Eightfold Path of Noble Paths' is the
World-Honored One; The person” is the World Honored One. "World Honored
One", this name was not given (made) by a mother; not by a father; not
by a brother; not by a sister; not by a friend; not by a relative; not
by a recluse or a brahmin This is the ultimate liberation of the Buddha
and the World-Honored One: Anli (pseudonym), who is under the Bodhi
tree, together with the acquisition of all knowledge and wisdom and
testimony, is the World-Honored One. "To be single he should kill the
darkness. [Like this, the Blessed One (saying)]
　　Because then, the Blessed One said:
　　"In these dharmas he should subdue the desires: the monk who is
mindful and good-hearted and liberated,
　　　considers the dharma in time and correctly, and becomes
single-minded he should kill Darkness. [Like this Bhagavan (saying)]"
　　Explanation of the Sariputta Sixteenth [Completed].
　　The description of the sixteen classics in a group of eight has been
completed.
　　The Dayi Interpretation Classic has been completed.


Notes:
　1. The ability and virtue that should be possessed by living in a
quiet place with no one.
　2. Whenever the mind is cloudy (all unwholesome deeds), it should be
understood and driven away.
　3. Ignorance/Unreasonable thoughts/I am slow/No ashamed/No
shame/Failure is the root of anger and extreme slowness.
　4. The meditator should sever the intention of thinking and regret.
　12/15/2020 16:20
Note:
　　 "Satisfied" (tusitā, pp. of tussati), the transliteration of tusitā
is "Tusita's; Tusita-tian", the characteristics of Tusita-tians are
contentment, contentment, wonderful contentment, joyful contentment, and
joy, so ancient times De is also translated as "contentment heaven,
wonderful feet heaven, joyful feet heaven, joyful heaven".
