Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
Homage to the World Honored One, Arahant, and Universally Enlightened One
Small
　Small Interpretation Sutras Other
　Shores
　 Preface Verse
　　1. Walking from the southern road to the delightful city of Kosala,
wanting to
　　　have no owner: Brahmin who knows the Vedas .
　　2. In the realm of Arthurg, the neighbor of Malag,
　　　lives on the banks of the Vudavalli, and feeds on the fallen ears
and fruit.
　　3. There was a large village where he depended, and
　　　the income generated from there was used as a sacrifice.
　　4. After the sacrifice of the big animal, he entered the thatched
hut again, and
　　　when he entered again, another Brahmin came.
　　5. Worn feet, thirsty, filthy teeth, dusty heads,
　　　he went to him and begged five hundred [money].
　　6. When Bavali saw him, he invited him to take a seat.
　　　He asked for happiness and well-being, and said these words:
　　7. I have spent all my gifts,
　　　Brahman! Allow me, I don't have five hundred.
　　8. If you do not follow my request
　　　, your head will be broken into seven pieces on the seventh day.
　　9. After the deceitful man made it, he proclaimed the terrible, and
　　　after he heard his words, Bavali became the distressed one.
　　10. Those who can't eat become thin: Those who are placed with sad
arrows,
　　　and those who have such a mind, have an unhappy mind in Zen.
　　11. After seeing the afflicted one who was feared, the gods who
wished to benefit [his]
　　　came to Bavali and said these words:
　　12. He does not know the head, this swindler who seeks money, the
　　　head or the head will not fall by him The intellect knows.
　　13. If that is the case, the Master knows, please tell me when asked,
　　　head to head, and let us hear your words.
　　14. I do not know this either, here is not known by my wisdom,
　　　head to head is split, because this is what the conqueror sees.
　　15. And if that is the case, he knows: In this circumference of the
earth,
　　　head to head is split, god! Please tell me about him.
　　16. Former monks from Kapilavastu, teacher of
　　　the world, descendant of King Ogge, son of Sakyamuni, author of
light,
　　17. Brahman! He is indeed the one who is fully enlightened, the one
who has reached the other shore of all dharmas, the one who has attained
　　　all wisdom and power, the one who has eyes on
　　　all dharmas, the one who has attained the cessation of all karma,
and the one who has attained liberation on the cessation of dependence.
　　18. He is the Buddha, the World Honored One in the world. He who has
eyes teaches the Dharma.
　　　Please ask him, and he will explain it to you.
　　19. After hearing the words of the "Enlightened One", Bavali became
active,
　　　There is less sorrow, and great joy.
　　20. The Bavali, who is cheerful, enthusiastic, and full of joy,
asked the goddess:
　　　In which village or town, or in which place is the protector of
the world, and after walking there, he
　　　 can see, the enlightened one, the supreme two. Footer?
　　21. In the city of Shewei of the Khosala Palace: the conqueror, the
wise man, the supreme and wise man,
　　　the son of the Sakyamuni who is incomparable, the one without
trouble, the king of cattle among men, the head is split knower.
　　22. From there he summoned his disciples, Brahmins who knew the Veda:
　　　student Brahmins! you come! I will tell you to listen to my words.
　　23. For him, this is difficult to obtain in the world: it often
appears in the front, and
　　　now he has arisen in the world, the famous "enlightened one",
　　　after rushing to the city of Sawei, please see the two-legged deity.
　　24. How can we know that, Brahmin! After seeing "Buddha",
　　　please tell us what we don't know, so that we can know him.
　　25. Coming in the Vedas, the sign of the great man, the
　　　thirty-two signs, are fully explained in sequence.
　　26. For those who have these things on their bodies, there
　　　are only two interesting things for him, and the third one is
really undiscovered.
　　27. If you live at home, after conquering this earth, you
　　　will teach with the law without a staff and without a sword.
　　28. But if he leaves home and becomes homeless,
　　　he becomes the veil-lifter, the enlightened one, the supreme arahant.
　　29. Lineage, surname, characteristics, Vedas, disciples, and more,
　　　head to head split: please only ask with your heart.
　　30. If he were the Buddha, the unobstructed seer,
　　　when he asked a question with his mind, he would answer with words.
　　31. After hearing Bavali's words, the sixteen Brahmin disciples,
　　　Ayito, Dessa Maitreya, Furunago and Maitreya.
　　32. As well as Dudag, Upohi, Nanda and Heimagar, Dudya and Gebo, and
the
　　　wise and wise Ruodu Gengni.
　　33. As well as Bodowuda, Uthoa, and Brahmin
　　　Persala, the wise Moerraja, and the great immortal Binqiya.
　　34. All of them have disciples or followers (masters), famous people
in the world, meditators,
　　　meditators, firm people, and those who practiced in the past.
　　35. After questioning Bavali, and after turning right around him,
　　　tie everything up, put on sheepskins, and set out facing north.
　　36. In front of Marago's Bodhidana, and then in front of Mahishedo,
Yujanni and Gonada, the great-looking ones
　　　, are called Vanasera.
　　37. To reward Mi and Sageto, as well as the top of the city of Sawei,
　　　Xie Dabiya, Gebulawadu, and the palace of Kushina.
　　38. Bhava and Fortune City, Osiri, Magadha City,
　　　and Pashnagar Temple: Pleasant and pleasing.
　　39. As the thirsty to the cool water, as the merchant to the great
gain,
　　　as the oppressed by the heat to the shade of the sun, they hurried
up the mountain.
　　40. At that time, the Blessed One was placed in front of
　　　the Bhikkhu Sangha, who taught the Dhamma like a lion roaring in a
forest.
　　41. Ayito saw the Buddha: like the sun woven by rays of light (Sri
Lankan version),
　　　like the moon on the fifteenth, reaching full points.
　　42. After seeing the body again, as well as the complete features,
　　　(body hair) stood upright and asked questions [with] mind:
　　43. Please say about the birth of ourteacher , please say his
surname and characteristics,
　　　please say bark The highest of all, how many [students] did the
Brahmin teach?
　　44. He is one hundred and twenty years old. His surname is Bavali. He
　　　has three characteristics on his body, and he is familiar with the
three Vedas.
　　45. In terms of characteristics and ancient legends, including words
and rituals,
　　　he taught five hundred people and achieved perfection in his
teachings.
　　46. ​​In the investigation of characteristics, Bavali is the supreme
　　　person, cut off the thirsty, please appear, and do not be doubted
by us.
　　47. The face is covered with the tongue, with white hairs in the
middle of the eyebrows,
　　　Hidden sheathed pussy, student brahmin! Please know so.
　　48. When no question was heard, after hearing the question being
explained,
　　　religious feelings arose, palms clasped together, and everyone
thought:
　　49. Which god or Brahma, or even the Shakti: Is it the husband of Suga?
　　　Will he ask questions with his heart? Who does he answer this?
　　50. Bavali asked: Head and head are broken,
　　　Lord! Please answer him, fairy! Remove our doubts.
　　51. Please understand that ignorance is the "head", and clarity is
the head split:
　　　those who are united by faith, thought, concentration, will and
vitality.
　　52. From there, the student Brahmin, with great religious feelings,
made it firm,
　　　put his head on his feet after arranging the sheepskin to one side.
　　53. Dear Sir! The Bavali Brahmins respected the master and the
disciples, with their
　　　hearts dancing and rejoicing, and saluting the feet of those with
eyes.
　　54. May Bavali Brahmins be happy! Together with your disciples,
　　　may you be happy! May you live long, student Brahmin!
　　55. All doubts about Bavali and you, or all [others],
　　　are permitted, ask you to ask: whatever your heart desires.
　　56. Having been allowed by the enlightened one, after sitting down
and putting his palms together,
　　　Ayito asked the first question, where he asked the Tathagata.
　　The preface has been completed.
