Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
Explanation of the other shore Taoist 1. Explanation 　　asked
　by the Brahmin, a student of Ayutth. Why not shine? 　　　What do you
say it's dyed? What is its great terror? 　　"The world is surrounded by
what": "The world, the world of hell, the world of beasts, the world of
evil spirits, the world of humans, the world of heaven, the world of
khandha, the world of worlds, the world of places, this world , Other
worlds, the world of Brahma, the world of gods, this is called the
world. What is this world covered, covered, obstructed, closed, covered,
covered.” What is the world covered by. 　　"[Like this, Venerable
Aita]": "'Like this', the continuation of sentences; the connection of
sentences; the perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the
connection of words; this is the order of sentences, for 'like this'
"Venerable", which is synonymous with loving language, honorific
language, respectful, and obedient, and is "Venerable." Naming,
appellation, words, phrases, appellation." It is [like this Venerable
Ayido]. 　　"Because of what does not shine": "The world does not shine,
does not shine, does not illuminate, does not shine, is not known, is
not known because of what is in the world." Because of what does not
shine. 　　"What do you mean by defilement?": "What is attachment,
attachment, bondage, and defilementin the world? Because of what world
is defiled, strongly defiled, closely defiled (contaminated), defiled,
strongly defiled You speak, you explain, you teach, you inform, you
build, you uncover, you decipher, you clarify, you explain.” For you Say
what is it dyed. 　　"What is its great terror": "What is the world's
terror, great terror, oppression, blow, scourge, disaster." Why is its
great terror? 　　Because of that, the Brahmin said:








　　"[Like this Venerable Ayito:] What is the world surrounded by? Why
is it not shining? What do
　　　you mean by its dye? What is its great terror?"
　　2. [World Honored: "Ayito!"] The world is surrounded by ignorance,
and because of stinginess and indulgence, it does not shine.
　　　I say that desire is [its] contamination, and suffering is its
great terror.
　　"The world is surrounded by ignorance": "'Ignorance', ignorance of
suffering, ignorance of the origin of suffering, ignorance of the
cessation, ignorance of the past, ignorance of The ignorance of the
future, the ignorance of the past and the future, the ignorance of
certain conditions andconditioned dharmas, all such ignorance, not
seeing, not seeing, not being aware, not being enlightened, not
understanding, not knowing Firmness, incomprehension, incomprehension,
incomprehension, incomprehension, {incomprehension of karma} [not
understanding], inferior wisdom, ignorance, ignorance, ignorance,
ignorance, ignorance, ignorance, ignorance, yoke of ignorance, ignorance
The latent tendency of afflictions, the entanglement of ignorance, the
barrier of ignorance, and the root of delusion and unwholesomeness are
called ignorance.
　　"World", the world of hell, the world of animals, the world of evil
spirits, the world of human beings, the world of gods, the world of
aggregates The world, the world of worlds, the world of being, this
world, other worlds, the world of Brahma, the world of gods, this is
called the world. This world is enveloped, covered, obstructed, closed,
hidden, covered by this ignorance Covered.” It means that the world is
enveloped by ignorance.
　　"'Ayido': The Blessed One addressed the Brahmin by name. 'Blessed
One', synonymous with respect. In addition, 'the one who has destroyed
greed' is the Blessed One; 'the one who has destroyed hatred' is the
Blessed One; The World Honored One; "the one who has destroyed the
slowness" is the World Honored One; "the one who has destroyed the
sight" is the World Honored One; "the one who has destroyed the thorns"
is the World Honored One; World Honored One; "the one who has finished"
is the World Honored One; "the one who has practiced the body, the
precepts, the mind, and the wisdom have been trained" is the World
Honored One; or "the World Honored One is close to the forest, the wild
forest, and the frontier abode (squatting place): The one who is quiet,
quiet, away from the atmosphere of people, who lives alone, and is
suitable for sitting alone" is the Blessed One; Or "The World-Honored
One is the one who has the taste of righteousness, the taste of Dharma,
the taste of liberation, the improvement of morality, the improvement of
heart, and the improvement of wisdom." "The World Honored One" is the
World Honored One; or "the World Honored One is the one who has attained
the eight liberations, the eight supreme places, the ninth abodes,
etc."; One who is a partaker of perfection, impurity, etc. is the
World-Honored One; or "The World-Honored One is a partaker of the four
mindfulness, the four righteous efforts, the four spiritual feet, the
five faculties, the five powers, the seven factors of enlightenment, and
the eight noble paths." Or "The World Honored One is a partaker of the
ten Tathagata powers, the four fearlessness, the four unhindered
solutions, the six supernatural powers, and the six enlightened dharmas"
for the World Honored One. "World Honored One", this name was not given
(made) by the mother; it was not given by the father not from brothers;
not from sisters; not from friends; not from relatives; not from ascetic
or brahmins; not from gods, this is the ultimate liberation of the
Buddha and the World-Honored One: Anli (pseudonym) under the Bodhi tree,
together with the acquisition of all knowledge and the testimony, is the
World Honored One." It is [World Honored: "Ayito!"].
　　"Because of stinginess, indulgence does not shine": stinginess is
called five kinds of stinginess: [to] stinginess in the house,
stinginess at home, stinginess in gain, stinginess in praise, stinginess
in Dharma, all such stinginess and stinginess look like , stingy state,
greed-saving, stingy, stingy, mind-grip state, this is called stingy. In
addition, accumulating stinginess is also stingy; being stingy in the
realm is also stingy; dealing with stinginess is also the clinging view
of stinginess [this] is called stinginess. In the evil deeds of the
body, or in the evil deeds of speech, or in the evil deeds of the mind,
or in the five kinds of desires, relaxation can be turned, and the
abandonment of the mind does not arise, or the practice of the good
Dharma is done without respect. The state of impermanence, the state of
impermanent action, the state of non-stop action, the state of being
attached to the habit, the state of neglecting the will, the state of
neglecting the responsibility, not practicing, not practicing, not doing
much, not establishing, not practicing, letting go. Any state of letting
loose, letting go, letting go like this is called letting go. "Because
of stinginess, laziness does not shine": "The world does not shine
because of this stinginess, this laziness does not shine, it does not
shine, it does not shine, it is not brilliant, it is not known, and it
is not known." radiant.
　　"I say craving is [its] taint": "Desire is called craving, that is
craving, craving (perfect craving), submissive craving, accommodating,
rejoicing, craving, craving of the mind, wanting, infatuation ,
clinging, craving, great greed, defilement, mud, disturbance, deceit,
[the root of samsara], [suffering] fertility, tailoring (craving), net,
river, bondage, rope, attachment, Accumulation, companionship, desire,
channel of existence, lust (forest), love forest (forest), intimacy
[santhavo?], love, expectation, relationship, desire, desire, state of
desire, desire for sex, desire for sound , desire to smell, desire to
taste, desire to touch, desire to get, desire for wealth, desire for
sons, desire to live, desire, desire, supplication, covetousness, state
of covetousness, covetousness, appearance of covetousness, possessing
covetousness state of being, inquiring, wishing for the good, unlawful
greed, unrighteous greed, desire, desire, hope, envy, full hope, craving
for lust, craving for something, craving for nothingness, craving for
lust , craving for formless, craving for cessation, craving for form,
craving for sound, craving for smell, craving for taste, craving for
touch, craving for dharma, turbulence, yoke (binding), Binding,
clinging, obstructing, covering, covering, binding, following
defilements, latent tendency of defilements, entanglement, gluttony,
stinginess, the root of suffering, the cause of suffering, the
occurrence of suffering, the devil's net, the devil's hook, the devil's
Food, the realm of the devil, the abode of the devil, the realm of the
devil, the bondage of the devil, the river of craving, the net of
craving, the rope of craving, the sea of ​​craving, greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. This is called craving clinging to the world,
clinging to, tying up, following the defilements, because of this
longing for the world to be contaminated, strongly contaminated, closely
contaminated, contaminated, strongly contaminated, smeared, mixed,
attached, fixed I speak, I explain, I teach, I inform, I establish, I
uncover, I decipher, I elucidate, I explain." Saying desire for me is
[its] contamination.
　　"Suffering is its great terror": "'suffering', suffering in birth,
suffering in old age, suffering in sickness, suffering in death,
suffering in sorrow, suffering in despair, suffering in hell, suffering
in animal realm, suffering in evil spirit realm, suffering in human
beings, root cause Suffering from entering the womb, suffering from
living in the womb, suffering from birth, suffering from dependence on
the born, suffering from being manipulated (placed) by others, suffering
from one’s own actions, and suffering from others’ actions suffering,
[suffering,] suffering of actions, suffering of becoming susceptible,
diseases of the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body, head, external ear,
mouth, teeth, cough, asthma, external nose, fever, Old age, abdominal
disease, coma, diarrhea, abdominal pain, cholera, leprosy, tumor,
ringworm, lung disease, epilepsy, ringworm, scabies, rheumatism,
scratches (a type of leprosy), chapped skin, hemobiliary disease,
diabetes, hemorrhoids , rashes (boils and blisters), hemorrhoids
(ulcers), diseases caused by gallbladder, diseases caused by phlegm,
diseases caused by wind, diseases caused by [three] gatherings, diseases
caused by seasonal changes, diseases caused by improper posture disease,
sudden disease, disease caused by karma, cold, heat, hunger, thirst,
feces, urine, suffering from contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind,
sun, snakes, suffering from dead mother, suffering from dead father,
suffering from dead brother Suffering, Suffering from the Dead Sister,
Suffering from the Dead Son, Suffering from the Dead Daughter, Suffering
from the Loss of Relatives, Suffering from the Loss of the Family,
Suffering from the Loss of Disease, Suffering from the Loss of Precepts,
Suffering from the Loss of View For all dharmas, from the beginning,
arising is known; from extinction, extinction is known, the result is
based on karma; karma is based on the result, form is based on name;
name is based on form. To be accompanied by birth, to be followed by old
age, to be conquered by disease, to be struck by death, to be
established in suffering, to have no shelter, no refuge, no refuge, no
refuge, this is called suffering. This suffering is the terror of the
world , great terror, oppression, blow, calamity, calamity." Suffering
is its great terror.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Ayito!'] The world is enveloped in ignorance,
and because of stinginess and indulgence it does not shine.
　　　I say that desire is [its] contamination, and suffering is its
great terror."
　　3 [ Like this Venerable Ayido:] Streams flow out everywhere, what is
the protection of streams?
　　　Please talk about the self-control of the streams, what are the
streams closed by?
　　"Flows flow everywhere": "Flows", flow of craving, flow of vision,
flow of defilement, flow of evil deeds, flow of ignorance. "Everywhere",
in all places of entry. "Flow", flow, flow, flow, flow, flow . From the
eyes to the forms, the flow, the flow, the flow; from the ears to the
sounds... (abbreviated in the middle) from the nose to the smells...
from the tongue to the tastes... from the body to the touch... from
Intentional dharmas flow, flow, flow, flow. Craving flows, flows, flows,
flows from eye to form; craving flows, flows, flows, flows from ear to
sound; craving flows from nose to smell... craving flows from tongue to
taste... The craving flows from the body to the touch... the craving
flows, flows, flows, flows, flows from the dhamma. "For the currents to
flow out everywhere.
　　"[Like this, Venerable Ayito]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the
sentence, "Like this"... (Abbreviated in the middle)" is [Like this,
Venerable Yiduo].
　　"What is the protection of the currents": "What is the covering,
{cover}[protection?], self-control, protection, protection of the
currents." Why the protection of the currents.
　　"Please talk about the self-control of the currents": "The currents
cover, {cover}[protect?], self-control, guard, protect, please speak,
please explain, please teach, please inform, please establish, Please
open it up, please analyze it, please clarify, please explain.” In order
to ask you to talk about the self-control of all streams.
　　"What are the streams closed by?": "What are the streams closed and
cut off, they do not flow, they do not flow, they do not flow out, they
do not flow." It is what the streams are closed by.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venered Ayita like this:] Streams flow out everywhere. What is the
protection of streams?
　　　Please say self-control of streams, by what?"
　　4. [World Honored One] "Ayita!"] All the currents in the world,
mindfulness is their protection,
　　　I say the self-control of the currents, these are closed by wisdom.
　　"Every flow in the world": "Every flow which I speak, explain,
explain, teach, instruct, establish, uncover, dissect, elucidate, and
explain, namely: The flow of craving, the flow of vision, the flow of
defilement, the flow of evil deeds, the flow of ignorance. 'In the
world', in the world of suffering, in the world of humans, in the world
of gods, in the world of khandha, in the world of worlds, in the world
of beings." For all the currents in the world. "Ayito": The Blessed One
addressed the Brahman by his first name.
　　"Mindfulness is their defense": "'Mindfulness', all mindfulness,
casual mindfulness, mindfulness, mindfulness state, mindfulness state,
non-floating state, non-forgetting state, mindfulness root, mindfulness,
mindfulness, mindfulness-enlightenment factor , The road without fork in
the road, this is called mindfulness. 'Protection', covering,
{covering}[protection?], self-control, guarding, protecting." For
mindfulness is their protection.
　　"I speak of the self-control of the streams": "The streamers'
covering, {cover}[protection?], self-control, guarding, protection, I
say, I explain... (Abbreviated) I explain, I explain." Say everything
for me Streaming homemade.
　　"These are closed by wisdom": "wisdom", that is wisdom, knowledge
and understanding... (abbreviated in the middle), non-delusion, choice
of Dharma, right view. "These are closed by wisdom": "These streams are
closed and cut off by wisdom. They do not flow, they do not flow, they
do not flow, they do not flow. 'All formations are impermanent.' When
known and seen, these streams are closed and cut by wisdom. They don't
flow, they don't flow, they don't flow, they don't flow; "all actions
are suffering." When knowing and seeing, these flows are closed and cut
off by wisdom, they don't flow, they don't flow, they don't flow, they
don't flow; "All formations are non-self." When known and seen, these
streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not flow, do not flow,
do not flow, do not flow; "With ignorance as a condition, there are
formations (and formations exist) 』When knowing and seeing, these
streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not flow, do not flow,
do not flow, do not flow; ..."six senses are conditioned by name and
form"..."feeling is conditioned by the six senses"..."feeling is
conditioned by contact"..."feelings are conditioned and have craving"...
"Cream and craving lead to clinging"..."Clinging to clinging leads to
existence"..."Certaining to existence leads to birth"..."Long-age and
death take birth as a prerequisite" When you know and see, these are
Streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not flow, they do not
flow, they do not flow, they do not flow; Consciousness is extinguished,
and there is cessation of name and form"..."With the cessation of name
and form, there is cessation of six senses"..."With the cessation of six
senses, there is cessation of touch"..."With the cessation of contact,
there is cessation of feeling"..."With the cessation of feeling, there
is cessation. There is craving and annihilation"..."With the cessation
of craving, there is cessation."......"With the cessation of craving,
there is cessation."..."With the cessation of existence, there is birth
and cessation. , When seeing, these streams are closed and cut off by
wisdom, they do not flow, do not flow, do not flow out, do not flow;
"This is suffering" is the meeting, after contemplating the Dharma;
"This is the accumulation of suffering"... (abbreviated) "This is the
cessation of suffering"..."This is the path leading to the path of
suffering" When knowing, seeing, these streams are closed and cut off by
wisdom, they do not flow, they do not flow, they do not flow, they do
not flow; "These dharmas are afflictions. ”… (Abbreviated in the middle)
“This is the collection of the leakage”… “This is the cessation of the
leakage”… “This is the path leading to the leakage” When knowing,
seeing, these streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not
flow, No flow, no flow, no flow; "These dharmas should be realized"...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "These dharmas should be universally
known"... "These dharmas should be discarded"... "These dharmas should
be practiced"... ..."These dharmas should be attested" When known and
seen, these streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not flow,
they do not flow, they do not flow, they do not flow, they do not flow;
, Pleasure, trouble, renunciation, when they know and see, these streams
are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not flow, they do not flow,
they do not flow, they do not flow; , Defects and renunciations, when
they are known and seen... The four kinds of arising, disappearing,
pleasant, detrimental, and renunciation, when they are known and seen...
"Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas." When knowing and
seeing, these streams are closed and cut off by wisdom, they do not
flow, they do not flow, they do not flow, they do not flow. ' is closed
by Hui for these.
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said,
　　"[World Honored One: 'Ayido!'] All the currents in the world,
mindfulness is their protection.
　　　I speak of the self-control of the currents, which are closed by
wisdom."
　　5. [Like this Ayito:] Wisdom and Mindfulness, as well as name and
form, dear sir!
　　　Please tell me when I asked about this, where was this broken?
　　"Wisdom and Mindfulness": ""Wisdom", that is wisdom, understanding,
simple choice, investigation, method selection, identification,
discrimination, close observation, wise (erudition), proficiency,
intelligence, contemplation, deep contemplation, examination, Vast
(comprehensive), wisdom, wise wisdom, vipassana, right knowledge, thorn
stick, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, wisdom sword, wisdom temple,
wisdom light, wisdom light, wisdom light, wisdom treasure, no delusion,
choice of the law , Right view. "Thinking", all thoughts, casual
thoughts... (Abbreviated in the middle) Righteous thoughts." For [like
this Venerable Ayito:] Wisdom and thoughts.
　　"And mind and form, dear sir": "'name' is the four immaterial
aggregates. 'Rama' is the material created by the four elements and the
four elements. A synonym for obedience.' For dear sir." For and for name
and color, dear sir.
　　"Tell me when I ask this": "'I...this', whatever I ask; whatever I
beg; whatever I ask; whatever makes me clear. 'When asked', when
questioned; When you are begged; when you are asked; when you are made
clear. "Please tell", please speak, please explain, please teach, please
inform, please establish, please open, please analyze, please
Explanation, please explain." Please tell me when I ask this.
　　"Where this is destroyed": "Where this is destroyed, calmed down,
goes to non-existence, ceases." For where this is destroyed.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venered Ayita like this:] Wisdom and Mindfulness, as well as mind
and matter, dear sir!
　　　Please tell me when I asked {this way}[this], where was this broken?
　　6. Whoever asked this question, Ayito

! I tell you that, 　　　where name and form are destroyed without
remainder: 　　　with the cessation of consciousness, here this is
destroyed.
　　"Whatever this question is asked": "'All this' is wisdom,
mindfulness, mentality and form. 'Inquiry', you ask; you beg; you ask;
make you clear." This is the question asked by all.
　　"Ayito! I tell you that": "'Ayito', the Blessed One calls that
Brahman by name. 'That' is wisdom, mindfulness, mentality and form. 'I
tell', I tell, I explain, I teach , I inform, I establish, I uncover, I
decipher, I elucidate, I explain." For Ayito! I tell you that.
　　"In that place name and form are destroyed without remnant": "'Name'
is the four formless aggregates. 'Form' is the material created by the
four elements and the four elements. The aspect is completely, without
remainder, whole, this is the word of ubiquity, 'without remainder'.
'Destroyed', annihilated, calmed, gone to non-existence, cessation." is
the name of the place With color, no residue is destroyed.
　　"With the cessation of consciousness, this is destroyed here":
"Through the wisdom of the Suddhawan Way, the cessation of consciousness
through creation, except for the seven existences, all the name and form
that can arise in the beginningless samsara are here. These are all
eliminated, calmed down, gone to non-existence, and ceased. Through the
one-way knowledge, the extinction of consciousness through creation,
except for the two existences, all the names and forms that can arise in
the five existences are all here. To be extinguished, to be calmed down,
to go to non-existence, to cease. Through the wisdom of not returning
the path, to create the cessation of consciousness, except for one
being, all the names and forms that can arise in the realm of form and
formless realm are here these All are extinguished, calmed down, come to
non-existence, cease. Through the wisdom of the Arahant path, with the
cessation of consciousness, all minds and forms that can arise are all
gone, calmed down, and gone to non-existence. An arahant passes through
the realm of Nirvana without remnants, and the last consciousness at the
time of parinirvana is extinguished, wisdom, mindfulness, name, and
form, here all these are extinguished, calmed down, gone to
non-existence, and ceased.” annihilation, here this is destroyed.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Anyone who asks this question, Ayito! I tell you that,
　　　where name and form are destroyed without remainder:
　　　with the cessation of consciousness, here this is destroyed."
　　7. All the discerning ones, and all the learned and
　　　wise ones here, when I ask them how they behave, dear sir! Please
tell. [ SN.12.31 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.31>]
　　"The comprehend of all things": The comprehend of dharma is called
an arahant, one who has exhausted all omissions. For what reason is a
Dhamma comprehend called an arahant, one who has exhausted all
defilements? They are those who perceive the law, those who know the
law, those who measure the law, those who judge the law, those who
understand the law, and those who understand the law. "All deeds are
impermanent." Those who perceive Dharma, who know Dharma, who measure
Dharma, who judge Dharma, who understand Dharma, who understands Dharma;
"All actions are suffering" who perceive Dharma. The one who realizes...
(Abbreviated in the middle) The one who realizes the Dharma of "all
actions are without self"... The one who realizes the Dharma that "acts
with ignorance as a condition"... The Dharma that "every collection of
Dharma is the Dharma of extinction" Those who know the law, those who
know the law, the one who measures the law, the one who judges the law,
the one who understands the law, and the one who understands the law.
Or, for them it is the discerner of aggregates, the discerner of worlds,
the discerner of places, the discerner of places of interest, the
discerner of rebirth, the discerner of rebirth, the discerner of some ,
the discerner of reincarnation, the discerner of reincarnation. Or, they
are those who end up in the aggregate (boundary), those who end up in
the world, those who end up in the place, those who end up in the place
of interest, those who end up in rebirths, those who end up in the end
The abbot who is born the ultimate, the one who has the ultimate, the
one who is the ultimate in reincarnation, the one who is the ultimate in
the reincarnation [, the one who is the ultimate one], the one who has
the last, the one who is in the ultimate The dweller who gathers (the
body) last, the Arahant who holds the last body.
　　"[In innumerable kalpas, they are those who have acquired bodies,]
　　　this is their last, last gathering (body),
　　　Reincarnation of life and death, without them there is again
(rebirth). "[Thag. 202]
　　For this reason the comprehension of Dhamma is called an arahant,
one whose defilements have been exhausted. "Those who perceive the
Dharma, and here all have learning": "'Those who learn', why are they
called learning? 'They learn' is learning. And what do they learn? They
also learn to improve the mind , and they also learn to improve the wisdom.
　　What is the increase of the morals? Here, the monks are the
precepts, who live underthe protection of the self-control of the
Paratimcha, who have the right conduct, Practicing circumstances, seeing
terrible things in all the petty sins, and learning after receiving and
upholding them in various learning areas. The small and major precepts
are the basis of precepts, the [self] restraint of behavior, the
entrance of self-control, the good dharma, etc. ( Achieving the first of
the above, this is the study of increasing the precepts.
　　What is the study of increasing the mind? Here, the bhikkhu from the
liberation of desire... (abbreviated in the middle) the first
jhana...the second jhana...the third jhana...After entering, he dwells
in [ The fourth jhāna, which is neither suffering nor pleasure, but
which is composed of tranquility and pure mindfulness
, is the learning of the advanced mind. 　　What is the learning of the
advanced wisdom? Here, the bhikkhu is a man of wisdom, who has the
ability to leadarising and passing away , holy, insight, leading to the
complete cessation of sufferingZhihui, he knew as it really was, "This
is suffering. '... (abbreviated in the middle) 'This is a set of
bitterness. '... 'This is the cessation of suffering. ' Knowing
truthfully 'this is the path leading to the path of suffering. '...
'These are leaks. 』…… 『This is a missing set. '... 'This is the
cessation of leakage. ' Knowing as it is: 'This is the path leading to
the stray path. ' This is Zeng Shang Hui Xue. These three things, they
learn when facing (notice); they learn when they know; they learn when
they see; they learn when they examine; they learn when the mind is
established (determination); they learn when they overcome with faith ;
they learn when vigor is striving; they learn when mindfulness arises;
they learn when mind is concentrated; they learn when they know with
wisdom; they learn when they are realized; they learn when they are
realized; They learn when they are known; they learn when they are
abandoned; they learn when they are practiced; they learn when they are
witnessed, they practice, they practice well, and after upholding They
turn. For this reason they are called educated. "Every" means many.
These learnings are Sudokan practitioners, Stoggam practitioners, Anagam
practitioners, and Arahants practitioners. "Here", in this view, in this
liking, in this liking, in this assertion, in this Dhamma, in this
precept, in this law, in this teaching, in this holy life , in the
teachings of this master, in this individual, in this human world.
"Because everyone here has learning.
　　"When the wise are asked by me about their conduct, dear sir! Please
tell": "You are the wise, the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise
[, discriminator], the wise. Yes. Those who perceive the Dharma and the
learned manners, actions, actions, execution (turning), practice,
walking environment, dwelling place, walking path (path traces) [please
tell]. "To be questioned", to be questioned; to be questioned; To beg;
to be asked; to make it clear. "Tell me", please speak, please explain,
please teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover, please
analyze, please clarify, please You explain. 'Dear sir', 'This is
synonymous with love language, honorific, respectful, submissive.' For
dear sir." For the wise when I ask about their behavior, dear sir!
Please tell.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"Those who perceive the dharma, and whoever learns here,
　　　Wise men are asked by me about their conduct, dear sir! Please tell.
　　8. You should not be greedy for desires, your mind should not be
turbid, you should be
skilled 　　　in all dharmas, and bhikkhus should walk mindfully.
　　"Should not be greedy for desire": "desire", there are two kinds of
desire from the ode: desire for things and desire for pollution. What
are the desires of things? Desirable color, Desirable sound, Desirable
smell, Desirable smell, Desirable touch, Bedding, Clothing, Handmaids
and servants, Goats and sheep, Chickens and pigs, Elephants, horses,
horses, horses, fields, houses, gold, gold coins, villages and towns A
city, a country, a country, a storehouse, a warehouse, anything that can
be tainted by greed is the desire for things.
　　In addition, there are past desires, future desires, present
desires, internal desires, external desires, internal and external
desires, inferior desires, intermediate desires, sublime desires, misery
desires, human desires Desires, Desires of Heaven, Desires already
present, Desires created, Desires created by others, Desires possessed,
Desires not possessed, Desires cherished, Desires not to be cherished,
desires of all sensual states, desires of all forms, and desires of
formless states, are based on craving, have craving as their object,
make people want righteousness, and want to be loved. Covetousness, the
desire to be intoxicated with righteousness, and the desire to be
delighted with righteousness are called the desire for things.
　　What are the desires for pollution? The lust of the will, the lust
of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the
lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust,
the lust of the lust, the lust of the lust, Desire love, craving for
lust, passion for lust, lust for lust, infatuation for lust, grasping
for lust, flooding of lust, yoke for lust, clinging to lust, covering of
lust for lust.
　　"Seeing those roots of desire, desire you to be produced by thought
(intention),
　　　I will not think of you, so desire will not exist." [Jat.8.39 verse]
　　These are called polluting desires. Covetousness is called craving,
which is greed, greed... (Middle omitted) greed, the root of greed.
"Should not be greedy for desires": "Desires for things should not be
greedy, should not be obstructed, should be free from cravings, have no
cravings, have given up cravings, have eliminated cravings, and have
Free from greed, give up greed, give up greed, give up greed, have no
greed, give up greed, get rid of greed, free from greed, give up greed,
give up thinking Those who are greedy, those who are not thirsty, those
who have been extinguished, those who have become cool, those who feel
happiness, should live in themselves as Brahman's already-born ones."
This is why there should be no craving for lust.
　　"Mind should not be turbid": "Mind": all mind, mind, mind, mind
(visceral), white (pervasive), mind, mind base, mind root,
consciousness, consciousness aggregate, corresponding to that realm of
consciousness . Acting evilly with the body, the mind becomes cloudy,
turbulent, moving, slamming, turbulent, swirling, and restless; acting
evilly with words... hatred... delusion... anger... resentment... to
hide evil... to domineering... to jealousy... to be stingy... to
deceive... to be cunning... to be stubborn... to be passionate...
Slow...with extreme slowness...with humility...with ease...with all
pollution...with all evil deeds...with all trouble...with all
heat...with all heat... Constructing the mind with all unwholesome
things becomes cloudy, churning, moving, bumping, fluctuating, swirling,
and restless. "The mind should be unclouded": "The mind should be
unclouded: not agitated, not passive, not bumped, not fluctuated, not
swirled, calmed, in cloudiness, in contamination He should give up, he
should abandon, he should drive away, he should end, he should make it
to non-existence. After leaving, having been liberated, and having been
freed from fetters, he should live with a mind free from restrictions."
The mind should not be cloudy.
　　"A skillful one of all dharmas": "'All actions are impermanent' is a
skillful one of all dharmas; 'All actions are suffering' is a skillful
one of all dharmas; A skillful person; "acting with ignorance as a
precondition" is a skillful person of all dharmas... (Abbreviated in the
middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharma" is a
skillful person of all dharmas, this is a skillful person of all dharmas.
　　Or, [viewed] as impermanent and skilled in all dharmas; suffering...
(abbreviated in the middle), disease... tumor... arrow... woe...
disease... yes On the other side... corrupt... calamity... scourge...
terror... scourge... mobile... fragile... weak... no shelter... ...is
without refuge...is without refuge...is without refuge...is
abandoned...is false...is empty...is without self...is trouble...is
transmutation... ...is false...is the root of misfortune...is a
killer...is nothing...is a leak...is a purposeful...is a magic food
(bait)...is a way of life...yes The old way...the way of sickness...the
way of death...the way of sorrow, sorrow and despair...the way of
pollution...the way of gathering...the way of disappearing...the way of
happiness...the way of suffering...the way of renunciation For the
skillful person of all dharmas, this is also the skillful one of all
dharmas.
　　Or, skillful of khandha, skillful of world, skillful of base,
skillful of dependent arising, skillful of mindfulness, skillful of
right diligence, skillful of spiritual feet, skillful of root, skillful
of power, skillful of enlightenment The skillful one of the factors, the
skillful one of the path, the skillful one of the fruit, and the
skillful one of Nirvana, are also the skillful one of all dharmas.
　　Or, all dharmas are called the twelve sense bases: eye and form, ear
and sound, nose and smell, tongue and taste, body and touch, mind and
dharma, and because of desire, greed for the self, both inside and
outside of oneself Being discarded, the root has been cut off, [like] a
palm tree whose root has been cut off, becomes non-existent, something
that will not be born in the future, this situation is also the skillful
one of all dharmas. "To be a skilled person in all dharmas.
　　"Bhikkhus should walk with mindfulness": "mindfulness", there are
four ways to be mindful: when practising mindfulness on the body with
mindfulness of the body, when practising mindfulness on feelings Mindful
when contemplating feeling, mindful when practising mindfulness of mind,
mindful when mindful of dharmas, mindful of dharmas.
　　The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in avoiding
non-thought, mindful in the state where the dharma that should be done
with mindfulness is done, mindful in the state where the dharma
obstructed by mindfulness is destroyed, The state of not forgetting the
Dharma of mindful factor (phase) is mindful.
　　The next one is mindful in four ways: mindful in the state of being
mindful, mindful in the state of being mindful, mindful in the state of
being proficient in mindfulness, mindful in the state where mindfulness
does not drop. of.
　　The next one is mindful in four ways: {mindful state of
mindfulness,} mindful state of mindful state, mindful of state of
stillness, mindful of peaceful state , those who possess the state of
the Dharma of tranquility are mindful; those who are mindful of the
Buddha, who are mindful of the Dharma, who are mindful of the Sangha,
who are mindful of the precepts, The mindful of giving alms, the
mindfulness of heaven; the mindfulness of breathing in and out, the
mindfulness of death, the mindfulness of the body, the mindfulness of
silence ; All thoughts, random thoughts... (abbreviated in the middle)
mindfulness, the enlightenment factor of mindfulness, the path without
fork in the road, this is called mindfulness. To have, to have, to
reach, to reach, to have, to have, to have this thought, he is called
thoughtful. "Bhikkhu", the state of destruction of the seven dharmas is
a bhikkhu: the destruction of body view, the destruction of doubt, the
destruction of precepts and prohibitions, the destruction of greed, the
destruction of hatred, the destruction of delusion, the destruction of
laziness, the destruction of those evil and unwholesome dharmas : Go
along with the pollution, the reoccurrence, the fear, the bitter
retribution, and the life, old age and death in the future.
　　[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 519 verses]
　　"By the path that one has practiced (working), one has reached
parinibbana, surpassed those who doubt, and after abandoning
　　　non-being and being, those who have completed it, If there is one
who has already perished, he is a monk."
　　"Bhikkhus should walk mindfully": "A monk should walk mindfully, he
should walk mindfully, he should stand mindfully, he should sit
mindfully, and he should mindfully walk. Lying down, you should move
forward mindfully, you should step back mindfully, you should look
forward mindfully, you should observe mindfully, you should bend
mindfully, you should straighten mindfully, you should hold your coat
mindfully, Bowls and clothes should walk, stay, move, turn around,
guard, keep alive, and survive.” For bhikkhus, they should walk
consciously.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"There should be no craving for lust, the mind should be unclouded,
　　　Being skilled in all dharmas, bhikkhus should walk mindfully. At
the same time as
　　the verse ends, those who dwell in the same will, the same effort,
the same intention, and the same abode as theBrahman , those thousands
of living beings who are far away from the dust, the dharma eye that is
free from defilements arise: "Any collection of dharmas is a cessation
of dharmas." The Brahman's mind was freed from the defilements attached
to it. Upon reaching the realm of an arahant, the sheepskin robe, hair
knot, bark robe, staff, long-mouthed water bottle, hair and beard are
removed, and those who become bald-headed, cassock-clothed, bearers of
overcoats, bowls, and robes fold their hands together in the manner of
their meaning. Respecting the World-Honored One, he sat down and said,
"Great virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am my disciple."
　　The first explanation asked by the Brahmin, the student of Ayito,
was [completed].


Notes:
　1. Protecting with mindfulness, closing all streams with wisdom
(seeing impermanence, suffering, not-self, dependent arising).
　2. The place where consciousness ceases (Ni. 21, 30), the name (four
immaterial aggregates <https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni21.htm>), and
the form are destroyed.
　3. The comprehension of the Dharma is not greedy in desires, has
thoughts, and does not have cloudy minds (Zangheng, jealousy, deceit,
and deceit...).
　10/17/2020 14:50
Commentary:
　　 "Dwellers of the same abode" (ekavāsanavāsitā), Dharma Light
explained as "practitioners who practiced together because of that in
the teachings of the past Buddhas" (atītabuddhasāsane tena saddhiṃ
bhāvitabhāvanā).
