Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
2. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, the student of Maitreya
　　9. [Like this Venerable Maitreya Maitreya:] Who is the contented
person in the world here? Whose absence is shaken?
　　Who, after witnessing on both sides, will not be contaminated in the
middle after consideration?
　　Who do you call a " big man"? Who has surpassed the seamstress here?
　　"Who is satisfied here in the world": "Who is content in the world,
contented, contented, intentional achiever?" So who is satisfied in the
world here?
　　"[Like this, Venerable Maitreya]": "'Like this', the continuation of
sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences; the
combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, for 'like this' "Venerable", which is a synonym for love,
honor, respect, and obedience, and is "Venerable." , Appellation, words,
phrases, appellation. "Maitreya", the Brahman's surname, name,
appellation, Anli, common name." It is [Like this Venerable Maitreya].
　　"Whose non-existence is shaken": "The shake of craving, the shake of
seeing, the shake of slowness, the shake of pollution, the shake of
desire, whose shake they do not exist, do not exist, are not known, are
not discovered, have been Let go, be cut off, be calmed down, be
stopped, be unable to arise, be burned by the fire of wisdom." For whose
non-existence is shaken.
　　"Whoever witnesses after both sides": "Whoever witnesses,
understands, evaluates, judges, separates, and makes clear." Who is
after both sides witness.
　　"After contemplation, in the middle, no contamination": "After
contemplation, in the middle, no contamination, no contamination, no
more close contamination (no longer contamination). Having renounced,
left, liberated, and freed from bondage, he is freed from being Live
with a limited heart." In order not to be contaminated in the middle
after consideration.
　　"Who do you say is the 'big man'": "The big man is the 'top man, the
most victorious man, the supreme man, the first man, the highest man,
the first man, the top man.' Who do you say, Who do you tell, who do you
talk about, who do you explain, who do you talk about." Who is the "big
man" for you to say?
　　"Who here surpasses the tailor": "Who here {reaches}[transcends],
conquers the tailor, craving, crosses, crosses, overcomes." For who
surpasses the tailor here?
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Like this Venerable Dessa Maitreya:] Who is here in the world who
is satisfied? Whose existence is not shaken?
　　Who is unsullied in the middle after realizing it on both sides?
　　You Who is the 'big man'? Who surpasses the tailor here?"
　　10. [World-Honored One: "Maitreya!"] Among the desires there is the
Brahman, the one who is always mindful and free from craving,
　　　after consideration by the extinct bhikkhu , there is no shake for
him.
　　"Among all desires there are those of the Brahman": ""Desires,"
there are two kinds of desires: desires for things and desires for
pollution... (Middle abbreviation) These are called desires for
things... (Middle abbreviation) These are called For the desire to
defile. The holy life is called separation, abstinence, abstinence,
detachment, non-action, non-action, no offense, and no transgression
from the unrighteous Dharma, etc. Or, with no difference, the holy life
is called the eight branches Noble Path, namely: Right View, Right Will,
Right Speech, Right Action, Right Livelihood, Right Effort, Right
Mindfulness, Right Concentration. Whoever possesses, fully possesses,
attains, fully attains, attains, fully attains, possesses these eight
noble paths, he He is called a person who has a holy life. For example,
he is called "a person with wealth" because of his wealth; he is called
"a person with wealth" because of his wealth; he is called "a person
with fame" because of his reputation; ”; by virtue is called “those who
have precepts”; by vitality, they are called “those with vitality”; by
virtue of wisdom, they are called “those with wisdom”; Whoever
possesses, attains, attains fully, fully, fully possesses, possesses
these eight noble paths is called one who has the holy life." He is the
one who has the holy life in all desires.
　　"'Maitreya', the World-Honored One addressed that Brahman by his
surname. 'World-Honored One', this is a synonym for respect...
(Abbreviated in the middle) testifying to Anli (pseudonym), that is, the
World-Honored One." It is [World-Honored One: "Maitreya!"].
　　"Those who are always mindful and detached from craving": "The
craving for which 'craving' is material... (the middle abbreviated)
craving of the Dharma. For him, craving has been abandoned, cut off, and
calmed down. , who is stopped, cannot arise, and is burned by the fire
of wisdom, he is called one who has renounced craving, one who has given
up craving, one who has eliminated craving, one who has liberated
craving, one who has given up craving, one who has given up craving.
Those who are greedy, those who give up greed, those who eliminate
greed, those who liberate greed, those who abandon greed, those who give
up greed, those who do not hunger and thirst, those who have cooled,
those who have become cool, those who feel happiness, those who regard
themselves as Brahman and have been born "Always", always; everything;
all the time; always; everlasting time; always; continuously;
uninterrupted; continuous; the waves of water arise without interval;
continue to accompany them to touch before noon, noon, first night,
middle night, and late night; in the dark moon, bright moon, rainy
season, winter, summer; in youth, middle age, and old age. It is mindful
in one way: mindful when practising mindfulness of body, mindfulness
when mindfulness of sensations, mindfulness when mindfulness He who is
mindful when he is abiding, who is mindful when he is practising
mindfulness of the dharmas in the dharmas... (Abbreviated in the middle)
He is called mindful." He is always mindful and free from craving.
　　"After deliberation of a monk who has been extinguished": "After
deliberation, it is called wisdom, which is wisdom, understanding,
simple selection, investigation... (abbreviated in the middle) without
delusion, choosing the law, and right view. "After deliberation", after
deliberation [, After knowing], after understanding, after measuring,
after judging, after separating, after clarifying: "All actions are
impermanent" after considering [, after knowing], after understanding,
after measuring, after judging, after separating, after clarifying ;"All
actions are suffering"...(Abbreviated in the middle) "All dharmas are
without self"..."With ignorance as a condition, there are all actions
(and all actions exist)"..."Any collection of dharmas is cessation of
dharmas" Consideration After [, after knowing], after understanding,
after measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying.
　　Or, [seeing] as impermanence after consideration [, after knowing],
after understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) it is suffering... it
is disease... it is tumor... it is arrow... (abbreviated in the middle)
is renunciation After considering [, after knowing], after
understanding, after measuring, after judging, after separating, after
clarifying. "Quitted", greed makes the quenched state quenched; hatred
makes the quenched state quenched; ignorant makes the quenched state
quenched; anger ... resentment ... hides evil ... bossy... jealous...
stingy... deceitful... cunning... Pollution...all evil...all
afflicted...all hot...all burning (torture)...all unwholesome and
contrived make the extinguished state as extinguished. "Bhikkhu", the
destroyed state of the seven dharmas is a bhikkhu... (Abbreviated in the
middle) Those who have been completed, and those who have been
destroyed, he is a bhikkhu. ' after considering the extinct monks.
　　"There is no wavering for him": "'for him', for an arahant; for one
whose taints have been exhausted. 'Shaking', wavering of craving,
wavering of seeing, wavering slowly, defilement The shakes of lust, the
shakes of desire, these shakes for him they don't exist, they don't
exist, they don't exist, they don't exist, they don't exist, they don't
exist, they're abandoned, they're cut off, they're calmed down, they're
stopped, they can't arise, they're burned by the fire of wisdom.
"Because there is no wavering for him.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"[The Blessed One: 'Maitreya!'] Among the desires there is the
Brahman, the one who is always mindful and free from craving, and
　　　the bhikkhu who has been extinguished considers it, and there is
no wavering for him."
　　11 . After he has testified on both sides, he will not be stained in
the middle after consideration.
　　　I say he is a "man", and he has surpassed the tailor here. [
AN.6.61 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.61>]
　　"After he has realized both sides, after considering them, he will
not be stained in the middle": "Edge", contact is one side, contact is
the second side, and contact is in the middle; the past is one side, the
future is the second side, and the present is in the middle; Pleasant
feeling is one side, painful feeling is the second side, neither painful
nor pleasant feeling is in the middle; name is one side, form is the
second side, and consciousness is in the middle; six inner parts are one
side, and six outer parts are the second side, and consciousness is in
the middle. In the middle; there is a body on one side, a body gathers
on the second side, and a body disappears in the middle. After
consideration, it is called wisdom, which is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the law, and right view.
　　"Adhesion": There are two kinds of clinging: the clinging of [due
to] craving and the clinging of [due to] seeing... (Abbreviated in the
middle) This is the clinging of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle)
This is the clinging of seeing . What is craving clinging? All that is
called craving as a limit, as a state, as a range, as a boundary, as
grasped, as one's own: this is mine, this is mine, so much is mine and
this area is mine; [my] sights, sounds, smells, tastes, touches, things
that are spread on the ground, coats, maids and servants, goats and
sheep, chickens and pigs, elephants, oxen and horses , mules and horses,
fields, houses, gold, gold coins, villages, towns, capitals, localities,
treasuries, warehouses, all the earth, which are made their own because
of craving, all one hundred and eight kinds of thoughts of craving.
AN.4.199 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.199>], this is
the clinging of craving.
　　What is see sticking? There are twenty bases with body views, ten
bases with wrong views, ten bases with marginal views, such views, evil
views, jungle views, desert views, distorted views, wavering views,
grasping, accepting, clinging, clinging to the view of bondage, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the wrong way, the
grasping of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grasping of the reverse
(viparīta), the reverse (vipallāsa) The grasp of evil, the grasp of
evil, the grasp of what is not real [considered] as real, all that comes
to the reach of the sixty-two evil views, this is the clinging of view.
　　"After he witnesses on both sides, he considers it and leaves it
untouched in the middle": "He considers both sides and the middle, after
witnessing [, after knowing], after understanding, after weighing, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. Contaminated,
uncontaminated, uncontaminated, uncontaminated, incompletely
contaminated, uncontaminated, freed, freed, liberated, freed from
bondage, he is free from being restricted Stay." Because after he has
witnessed on both sides, after considering it, he will not be
contaminated in the middle.
　　"I call him the 'big man'": "The man is the best, the best, the
best, the first, the highest, the foremost, the best. I speak of him,
and I speak of him. He, I talk about him, I explain him, I talk about him.
　　The Venerable Shariputra said this to the World Honored One: "Great
virtue! It is called "a great man, a great man," great virtue! What is
the situation of a man? 』『Sariputra! I say that those whose minds are
liberated are "virtuous men"; I say that those whose minds are not
liberated are "non-virtuous men."
　　Sheriff! And what is a liberator of mind? Sheriff! Here, the bhikkhu
dwells in the body and observes the body: the zealous, the wise, the
mindful, and after subduing the greed and worry in the world, when he
dwells in the body and observes the body, the mind is free from
defilements. , being freed from all effluentsclinging to; in feeling...
(abbreviated in the middle) in the heart... living in the dharmas and
observing the Dharma: zealous, wise, mindful, subduing the greed in the
world After worrying, when he dwells on the dharmas and observes the
dharma, his mind is freed from defilements, and heis freed from all
strays after he does not cling to it. Sheriff! In this way the bhikkhu
has the heart to liberate. Sheriff! I say that those whose minds are
liberated are "virtuous men"; I say that those whose minds are not
liberated are "non-virtuous men." ' said he was a 'big man' for me.
　　"He surpasses the tailor here": "The tailor is called craving, and
that is greed, greed (totally greedy)... (abridged) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. To him this tailor, craving Discarded, cut off,
calmed down, stoked, unborn, burnt by the fire of wisdom, he transcends,
conquers the tailor, craving, transcends, transcends, overcomes.” For
here he transcends tailor.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"After he has witnessed on both sides, after considering it, he is
untainted in the middle. 　　I
　　　say that he is a 'big man.' He surpasses the tailor here."
Inhabitants of the same dwelling, the Dharma-eyes of thousands of beings
of distant dust and defilement arise: "Any collection of dharmas is
cessation of dharmas." The Brahman's mindwas freed from all defilements
after he was not attached to it. Upon reaching the realm of Arahant, the
sheepskin clothing, knotted hair, bark clothing, staff, long-mouthed
water bottle, hair and beard are disappeared, and those who become bald,
robe clothed, bear coats, bowls, and clothes, put their palms together
in the deeds of the meaning. Respecting the World-Honored One, he sat
down and said, "Great virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher and I
am my disciple."
　　The second explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Maitreya,
was [completed].


Notes:
　1. The uncontaminated on both sides and in the middle surpasses the
tailor (= craving).
　2. Those who have been extinguished (= attained Nirvana) are always
mindful and free from craving.
　10/17/2020 15:05
Notes:
