Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
3. Explanation of the question asked by the Brahmin, a student of Fulou
Nage


12. [Such as this Venerable Fulou Nage:] The undisturbed, the seer
of the root,


　the immortals and people who need to come with questions, rely on
something, The Kshatriyas and Brahmins


　make sacrifices to the gods here in the world? Lord, I ask you,
please tell me this.


"The undisturbed one, the seer of the root": "'The disturbance is
called craving, and that is greed, greed (complete greed)...
(abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. That
disturbance has already been ignored by the Buddha and the World-Honored
One. Abandoned, the root has been cut off, [such as] a palm tree whose
root has been cut off, becomes non-existent, something that will not
arise in the future, so the Buddha is the undisturbed one. Taking the
state of disturbed and discarded as the undisturbed one, the Blessed One
is there Don't shake when you get it; don't shake when you don't get it;
don't shake when you have a reputation; don't shake when you have no
reputation (bad comment); don't shake when you praise it; don't shake
when you rebuke; Do not shake in happy times; do not shake, move,
tremble, tremble (strong tremor) [, not much tremble (strong trembling)]
in suffering." One who does not disturb. "The Seer of the Root", Blessed
One It is the seer of the root, the seer of the cause, the seer of the
cause, the seer of the origin, the seer of the root, the seer of the
origin (origin), the seer of the food, the seer of the object, the seer
of the condition There are


three unwholesome roots: the unwholesome root of greed, the
unwholesome root of hatred, and the unwholesome root of delusion.


This is said by the World Honored One: Bhikkhus! There are three
causes of karma, which three? Greed is the cause of karma. , Hatred is
the cause of karma, and delusion is the cause of karma. Bhikkhus! It is
not because of greed, hatred, and delusion that the karma of greed,
hatred, and delusion is known by gods, people, or any good destination,
bhikkhus! In this way, the hells of greed, hatred, delusion are known,
the animal realm is known, the hungry ghost realm is known, or any lower
realm [ AN.6.39 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=6.39>]:
Individuals in hell, animal realm, hungry ghost realm are born and are
Know. The World-Honored One knows and sees these three roots of
unwholesomeness. This is the seer who is the root of the World-Honored
One... (abbreviated in the middle). There are these three roots of
goodness: the good root of no greed, the good root of no hatred, and the
good root of no delusion.


This was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! There are these three...
(slightly omitted) Bhikkhus! No karma of greed, no karma, no karma of
delusion, the hell is known, the animal realm is known, the hungry ghost
realm is known, or any evil realm is known, bhikkhus! Rather, with no
karma of greed, no karma, no karma of delusion, heaven is known, man is
known, or any good destination: the individual arises and is known in
the world of heaven and man. The World-Honored One knows and sees these
three roots of goodness. In this way, the World-Honored One is also the
seer of the root... (abbreviated from the middle).


This was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! Any unwholesome dharma,
unwholesome division, unwholesome party [ AN.1.56
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=1.56>], all are rooted in
ignorance, conjoined with ignorance, and with the eradication of
ignorance, then everything goes to eradication. [ SN.20.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=20.1>]” The World-Honored
One knows and sees, and in this way, the World-Honored One is also the
seer who is the root... (abbreviated) the seer of the set.


This was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! All good dharmas , good
divisions, good parties [ AN.1.57
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=1.57>], those are all
rooted in no slack, with no slack as their meeting, and slack is said to
be the first among those dharmas. [ SN.45.139
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=45.139>]" The World
Honored One knows and sees, and thus is also the seer whose root is the
World Honored One... (Abbreviated in the middle).


Or, the World-Honored One knows and sees: "Ignorance is the root of
formation, formation is the root of consciousness, consciousness is the
root of mind and matter, mind and matter are the root of the six senses,
the six senses are the root of contact, contact is the root of feeling,
and feeling is the root of The root of craving, craving is the root of
craving, craving is the root of being, being is the root of birth, and
birth is the root of old age and death. ' The World Honored One knows
and sees, and this is also the seer who is the root of the World Honored
One... (Abbreviated in the middle).


Or, the World-Honored One knows and sees: "The eye is the root of
eye disease, the ear is the root of ear disease, the nose is the root of
nose disease, the tongue is the root of tongue disease, the body is the
root of body disease, and the mind is the root of mind suffering. 'The
Blessed One knows and sees, and so the Blessed One is the seer of the
root, the seer of the cause, the seer of the cause, the seer of the
origin, the seer of the source, the seer of the origin (origin), the
seer of the food, the seer of the cause. The seer of the edge, the seer
of the edge, the seer of the set. ' is the disturber, the seer of the root.


"[Like this, Venerable Fulou Nage]": "Like this", the continuation
of the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) Venerable Fulou Nage.


"Needs come with questions": With questions I come in need, wanting
to ask questions I come, wanting to hear questions I come, this is what
needs come with questions. Or, "The inquiries that belong to the
question have the need, the one that wants to ask the question, the one
that wants to hear, [there will be] the coming, approaching,
approaching, visiting of the needy." This is also the need to come with
the question . Or, when you have questions, you can, you have enough
reason to tell and answer the questions I asked, "Please bear this
burden." This is also the need to come with questions.


"Immortals, people who rely on something": "Depend on, rely on,
stick to, enter, dye, and turn their hearts toward something.
'Immortals', called celestial beings, any monk who becomes a hermit
(immortal) or a monk. Those who are evil, heretics, Niqiantuo, those who
make hair, those who are ascetic. "People" are called people." Immortals
and people who depend on something.


"Kshatriyas and Brahmins to the gods": "'Kshatriyas', anyone born to
any Kshatriya. 'Brahmins', anyone who addresses others as "Sir." The
Disciple's Evil Destiny, the Niqianda Disciple's Niqianda Deity, the
Disciple's Hair-Breaking Deity, the Marcher's Disciple's Marching Deity,
the Banished Disciple's Banished Deity (Thailand Version), the Elephant
Ring Elephant deity of those who keep the precepts of horses, deity of
the horse deity of those who keep the precepts of horses, deity of the
cow devas who keep the precepts of cattle, deity of deities of dogs of
those who keep the precepts of dogs, devas of devas who keep the
precepts of crows, deity of devas of Vishnu who keep the precepts of the
god Vishnu , The strength of the god of strength, the god of power, the
god of man, the god of pearls, the god of fire, the god of fire, the god
of dragon, the god of gold The Garuda deity of the bird-preceptor, the
Yaksha deity of the yaksha preceptor, the Asura deity of the asura
preceptor, the Gandharva deity of the Gandharva preceptor, the king
deity of the king [heaven] preceptor, the moon guard The moon deity of
those who keep the precepts, the deity of the sun deity of those who
keep the precepts of the sun, the deity of Indra who keep the precepts
of Indra, the deity of Brahma deity of those who keep the precepts of
Brahma, the devas of devas who keep the precepts of the devas, the devas
of the orientation of those who keep the precepts, Those who are worth
offering to them are their gods." For the Kshatriyas and Brahmins to the
gods.


"Many sacrifices are made here in the world": "The 'sacrificial
offerings' are called offerings (dharma): clothing, food, shelter,
necessities for the sick, medical necessities, food, drink, cloth,
vehicles, garlands , spices, anointing, beds, houses, lamps and candles.
"Sacrificial offerings," whatever they seek, pursue, and seek for
sacrifice clothing, food, shelter, necessities of the sick, medical
necessities, food, drink, cloth, Vehicles, garlands, spices, anointing,
beds, houses, lamps and candles, they make sacrifices; all the clothes
they prepare for sacrifices, food, shelter, necessities of the sick,
medical necessities, food, drink... ) Those who sleep in beds, houses,
lamps, and candles, they also make animal sacrifices; all they give,
provide, and donate clothing, food, shelter, sick people, medical
necessities, food, drink... (abbreviated in the middle) , houses, lamps
and candles, they also make sacrifices. "Many", these sacrifices are
many, or the priests of these sacrifices are many, or these worthy ones
are many. What are these sacrifices? Many? The clothing, food, shelter,
necessities of the sick, medical necessities, food, drink, cloth, means
of transportation, garlands, spices, anointing, beds, houses, lamps and
candles belong to many, so are These sacrifices are many.


How are they or the priests of these sacrifices are many? , this is
or the priests of these sacrifices are many.


How is it or these are many who are worthy of offering? All these
ascetics, brahmins, beggars, travelers, wanderers, and beggars who are
worthy of offering are many, so Yes or are these worthy offerings many.
'Here in the world', in the world of men." Sacrifice for many here in
the world?


"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask', there
are three kinds of inquiries: the inquiry of the explanation of the
unseen, the inquiry of the confluence of the seen, the inquiry of the
severing of doubts. What is the unseen The inquiries of the explanation?
Originally unknown, unseen, unmeasured, unjudged, unclear,
unintelligible characteristics, for his intellect, seeing, measuring,
judging, clear purpose, clear purpose , he asked the question, which was
an inquiry of the unseen explanation.


What is the query of the confluence of what is seen? Originally
known, seen, measured, judged, clear, and understood, he asks questions
for the purpose of joining in with other wise men. This is a question of
what is seen.


What is the inquiry of the severing of doubts? Originally the one
who jumped into doubt (Sri Lankan version), who jumped into doubt, who
raised doubt: "Is that so? Isn't that so? what is it then? How is it? '
He asks the question for the purpose of the severing of doubts, which is
the inquiry of the severing of doubts. These are three kinds of inquiries.


The next three kinds of inquiries: human inquiry, non-human inquiry,
and humanized inquiry. What is a human inquiry? After they went to see
the Buddha and the World-Honored One, they asked questions: the monks
asked, the monks asked, the Upasaka asked, the kings asked, the
Kshatriyas asked, the Brahmins asked, the Vaishas asked, The heads of
the drams asked, the lay people asked, and the monks asked. This is a
human question.


What is an inhuman inquiry? After the non-humans went to see the
Buddha and the World-Honored One, they asked questions: the dragons
asked, the golden-winged birds asked, the yaksha asked, the asuras
asked, the Gandavas asked, the great kings asked the gods, the Indras
asked, and the Brahma asked , the gods asked, this is an inhuman question.


What is a human inquiry? All limbs and segments of the World-Honored
One have no lack of faculties in the form produced by the creative mind
of the World-Honored One. That person who transformed a person went to
see the Buddha and the World-Honored One asked a question, and the
World-Honored One answered [him]. These are three kinds of inquiries.


The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries for self-interest,
inquiries for the interests of others, and inquiries for the interests
of both. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of the present
interests, inquiries of the interests of the afterlife, and inquiries of
the highest interests. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of
the interests of no fault, inquiries of the interests of innocence, and
inquiries of the interests of clarity. The next three kinds of
inquiries: [about] past inquiries, future inquiries, and present
inquiries. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] inquiries within
oneself, inquiries outside oneself, and inquiries inside and outside
oneself. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] good inquiries, bad
inquiries, and unremembered inquiries. The next three kinds of
inquiries: the inquiry [about] the aggregate, the inquiry of the realm,
and the inquiry of the place. The next three kinds of inquiries: the
inquiry [about] mindfulness, the inquiry of the righteousness, and the
inquiry of the divine feet. The next three kinds of inquiries are: the
inquiry [about] the root, the inquiry of the force, and the inquiry of
the enlightenment factor. The next three kinds of inquiry: the inquiry
of the Tao, the inquiry of the fruit, and the inquiry of Nirvana.


"I ask you", "I ask you; I beg you; I ask you; you make me clear;
please tell me. ' ask you for me. "World Honored One", which is
synonymous with respect...Anritsu (pseudonym) who testified, "World
Honored One". "Please tell me this", please say, please explain, please
teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover, please analyze,
please clarify, please explain. "I ask you for the Blessed One, please
tell me this.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[Venaged like this, Venerable Phu Lunag:] The undisturbed, the seer
of the roots, the


　senators, the people, the kshatriyas, the sages, the people, the
kshatriyas, the ones who need it, come with questions, and depend on it.
Brahmins make sacrifices to the gods,


　there are many sacrifices in the world? World Honored I ask you,
please tell me this."


13. [World Honored: "Fulunaga!"] Any of these immortals, people,
Kshadi Limen and Brahmins make sacrifices to the gods,


　there are many sacrifices in the world, Fulou Nago! Looking
forward to this state of [reincarnation], making sacrifices according to
their aging.


"Anything any of these sages, people": "'Anything', all completely,
every aspect completely, without remainder, whole, this is the universal
word for 'everything'. 'Senmen' , who are called immortals, all those
who become a hermit (immortal), ordained, wicked, outlaws, niqantuos,
those who make hair, and those who are ascetic. 'People' are called
people." For [World Honored One: "Rich Lou Nage!"] Any of these
immortals, people.


"Kshatriyas and Brahmins to the gods": "'Kshatriyas', anyone born to
any Kshatriya. 'Brahmins', anyone who addresses others as "Sir." The
disciples' evil-ordered and heretical gods... (Abbreviated in the
middle) The orientation gods of those who keep the orientation precepts,
those who are worthy of offering to them are their gods." For the
Kshatriyas and Brahmins to the gods.


"There are many animal sacrifices in the world": "The "sacrifice" is
called the offering (dharma of giving): clothing, food, shelter, the
sick, the necessities of medicine, food, drink... (abbreviated) bed,
Houses, lamps and candles. "Sacrifices", those who seek, pursue, and beg
for sacrifices... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who sleep in beds,
houses, lamps, and candles, they also make sacrifices; whatever they
give, offer, Whoever donates the clothing, food, shelter, necessities of
the sick, medical necessities, food, drink... (abridged) bed, houses,
lamps, and candles, they also make sacrifices. "Many", these sacrifices
are many , or the priests of these animal sacrifices are many, or these
worthy of support are many... (Abbreviated) this is or these worthy of
support are many. "Here is in the world", in the world of men. ' for the
many sacrifices here in the world.


"Fulunaga! Looking forward to this [reincarnation] state": "'Looking
forward', looking forward to the acquisition of color; looking forward
to the acquisition of sound; looking forward to the acquisition of
smell; looking forward to the acquisition of taste; expecting the
acquisition of sons; expecting the acquisition of wives; expecting the
acquisition of goods; expecting the acquisition of fame; expecting the
acquisition of sovereignty; The acquisition of the individual in the
house of the Brahmins with the Great Hall; looking forward to the
acquisition of the individual in the house of the owner with the Great
Hall; looking forward to the acquisition of the individual in the Four
Kings Heaven; In Tusita Heaven...in Hualetian...in He Huazizaitian...in
the Brahma devas, one desires, accepts, hopes, hopes, and prays for." .


"Fulunaga! [Looking forward to] such a state of [reincarnation]":
"Looking forward to the rebirth of the individual here; looking forward
to the rebirth of the individual here in the Kshatriya house with the
Great Hall... (abbreviated in the middle) Looking forward to the rebirth
of the individual here in the Brahma devas, wanting, receiving, wishing,
eagerly looking, and praying." For Furunago! [Looking forward to] this
[reincarnation] state.


"They made sacrifices according to the old": "On the old, on the
sick, on the dead, on the sorrow, on the sorrow, on the bitter, on the
sorrow, on the despair. When they depend on the birth, that When they
are dependent on aging; when they are dependent on aging, then they are
dependent on sickness; when they are dependent on sickness, then they
are dependent on death; when they are dependent on death when they are
dependent on sorrow, lamentation, suffering, sorrow, and despair; when
they are dependent on sorrow, lamentation, suffering, sorrow, and
despair, then they are dependent on the destination; when they are When
they are dependent on the destination, then they are dependent on
rebirth; when they are dependent on rebirth, then they are dependent on
rebirth; when they are dependent on rebirth, then they are dependent on
When they are dependent on being, then they are dependent on samsara;
when they are dependent on samsara, then they are dependent on samsara:
clinging, trapped, defiled those whose hearts are turned toward them.”
sacrifices for them who depend on old age.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[World-Honored One: 'Fulunage!'] Any of these immortals, people,
Kshatriyas, Brahmins and gods,


　there are many sacrifices here in the world, Fulunage! Looking
forward to this [reincarnation] ] in the state of old age, and make
sacrifices according to them.”


14. [Such as Venerable Phu Lunag:] Any of these celestial beings,
people, Kshatriyas, Brahmins to gods,


　here in the world Many sacrifices, Blessed One! Is it true that
those who do not let go on the road of sacrifice have


　passed through birth and old age, dear sir? Lord, I ask you,
please tell me this.


"Any any of these immortals, people": "Anything"... (abbreviated in
the middle).


"World Honored One! Are those really those who do not let loose on
the road of sacrifice?" ""Are they true?" "Question of doubt, query of
confusion, query of doubt, query of more than one, these are rhetorical
words, interrogative irony. , Why, why?" is true. "Those" are priests
called animal priests. "World Honored One", "respected synonym...
(abbreviated in the middle) witnessing Anli (pseudonym), that is, the
World Honored One."" For the World Honored! Are those really. "Those who
do not slack off on the road of sacrifice", the sacrifice of animals is
called the path of sacrifice. For example, the holy way is the holy way;
the way of heaven is the way of heaven; the way of Brahma is the way of
Brahma. road. "Those who do not let loose", those who do not let loose
on the road of sacrifice are respectful writers, frequent writers,
non-stop writers, those who have a habit of not being attached, those
who do not neglect their desires, those who have that character, those
who are too much, those who are heavy. The one who takes that as the
object, the one who strives for that, the one who leans toward that, the
one who overcomes, the one who increases, they are those who are not
slack on the road of sacrifice: whatever they seek, pursue, seek Clothes
for sacrifices, food, shelter, necessities for the sick, medical
necessities, food, drink... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who sleep
in beds, houses, lamps, and candles are the authors of respect...
(Abbreviated in the middle). They are those who do not let loose on the
road of animal sacrifices; they are respectful to those who prepare the
clothing, food, shelter, necessities of the sick, medical necessities,
food, drink... The author... (abbreviated in the middle) to the one who
increases, then they are also those who do not slack off on the road of
sacrifice; they give, make offerings, and give clothing, food, shelter,
necessities of the sick, medical necessities, Food, drink...
(abbreviated in the middle) those who lie in beds, houses, candles, they
are the respectful authors... (abbreviated in the middle) those who add
to that, they are also those who do not let go on the road of sacrifice.
"For the World Honored One! Are they really those who do not let go of
the sacrifices on the road?


"Through birth and old age, dear sir": "Old age, death they pass, go
beyond, pass, pass, overcome. 'Dear sir', which is a synonym for love,
honor, respect, obedience, For dear sir." To get through birth and
aging, dear sir?


"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask you,'
'I ask you; I beg you; I ask you; You make me clear; tell me.' Ask you
for me. "World Honored", a synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the
middle) Anli (pseudonym) who testified, namely "World Honored". "Please
tell me this", please say, please explain, please teach, please inform,
please You establish, please uncover, please analyze, please clarify,
please explain.” I ask you for the Blessed One, please tell me this.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[Like this Venerable Phu Lunag:] Any of these sages, people,
Kshatriyas, Brahmins, to the gods,


　there are many sacrifices here in the world, World Honored One! Is
it true that those who do not let loose on the road of sacrifice,


　survive birth and aging, dear sir? I ask you, Lord, please tell me
this."


15. [World Honored: "Fulunago!"] They expect , Appreciation, prayer,
offering,


　they ask for lust because of gain, they are dedicated to offering
offerings, and greedy for greed, I say they have not passed through
"birth, aging".


"They look forward to, to admire, to pray, to offer": ""They look
forward to," they look to form; they look to sound; they look to smell;
they look to taste; they look to touch ; [they expect sons;] they expect
wives; they expect wealth; they expect fame; they expect sovereignty;
they expect individuals in a Kshatriya house with great halls; In the
house of the Brahmins in the Great Hall... (middle) they look forward to
the acquisition of the individual in the house of the house owner with
the Great Hall; in the Heaven of the Four Kings...they look forward to
the achievement of the individual in the Brahma Heaven, they want, they
desire, they Yearning, they pray." Expect for them.


"They appreciate", "they appreciate the sacrifice, or they
appreciate the result, or they appreciate the one who should be offered.
How do they appreciate the sacrifice? What is given is pure, what is
given is agreeable, what is given is wonderful, what is given is
wonderful. The giving is timely, the giving is appropriate, the giving
is selected (examine the giving), the giving is without fault, the
giving is continuous (habitual), and the giving makes the heart pure.”
They praised, praised, praised, praised, and so they praised the sacrifice.


How do they appreciate the results? "Causes like this will surely be
attained in color... (abbreviated in the middle) there will be
attainments of individuals in the Brahma devas." They appreciate,
praise, praise, praise, and thus they appreciate the result.


How do they appreciate who should be supported? "Those who should be
offered are those who are born (blood), those who have surnames
(family), those who read and recite, those who hold mantras, those who
are the fifth in terms of vocabulary, rituals, phonology and etymology
of the three Vedas, and ancient history. The one who knows, the one who
knows the holy scriptures, the one who understands the grammar, the one
who "has nothing to do with the human being in the world", the one who
is free from greed or the one who is subdued for the sake of greed, the
one who is free from hatred or the one who is subdued for the sake of
hatred, and one who is free from greed. Those who are delusional or
those who practice for the control of delusion, those who are full of
faith, those who are full of morality, those who are full of
determination, those who are full of wisdom, those who are full of
liberation, those who are full of liberation and wisdom." They praise,
praise, praise, praise, and they should praise such Providers. '
Expectation and appreciation for them.


"They prayed", "they prayed for the acquisition of color, they
prayed for the acquisition of color, they prayed for the acquisition of
sound, they prayed for the acquisition of smell, they prayed for the
acquisition of taste... (Abbreviated in the middle) They prayed for the
acquisition of the individual in the Brahma devas . ' They look forward
to it, admire it, and pray. "They make offerings", they offer offerings,
giving, offering sacrifices, giving clothing, food, shelter, the sick,
medical necessities, food, drink, cloth, vehicles, garlands, spices,
anointing, beds, houses , Candles. "For [World Honored One: "Fulunaga!"]
they looked forward to, admired, prayed, and offered offerings.


"They ask for desire because of gain": "Because of appearance, they
ask for desire; because of sound, they ask for desire... (Abbreviated)
Because of individual acquisition in Brahma, they pray for desire. Pray,
hope." Pray for them because of gain.


"They are the devotees of offerings, the greedy ones who have greed,
and I say they haven't gone through 'birth, old age'": "''They' are
called priests of animal priests. "Devotion to the offering", "The yoke
in the dedication of the offering, the strong yoke, the toward the yoke,
the full toward the yoke, the character, the more, the heavy, the yoke
For the one who is the object, the one who strives for that, the one who
leans toward that, the one who overcomes, the one who increases." For
them is the one who makes offerings. "Those who are greedy and greedy",
whoever has desire, greed, joy, craving, affection, passion,
infatuation, lust, craving called greed. Covetousness, covetousness,
entangled, obsessed, tainted, attached, entrenched, obstructed. ' For
them, they are the dedicated ones who make offerings, the greedy ones
who have greed.


"I said that they have not passed through "birth, old age"", "Those
who make offerings, those who are greedy with greed, have not passed
through birth, old age, and death, have not passed, have not passed,
have not passed, have not passed Overcome, birth, aging, death are not
escaping, not being left, not being crossed, not being crossed, not
being overcome, they are turning in birth, aging, death, they are
turning on the cycle of samsara, accompanied by birth, by aging
Followed, conquered by disease, tortured by death, for those who have no
refuge, no refuge, no refuge, no refuge. ' I speak, I explain, I teach,
I inform, I establish, I uncover, I decipher, I explain, I explain. "For
them, they are dedicated people who make offerings, greedy people who
have greed, and I say that they have not passed through "birth, aging."


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[The Blessed One: 'Fulunaga!'] They look forward to, admire, ask
for, and offer offerings,


　they seek lust out of gain, they are the devotees of offering
offerings, the greed of greed. I say that they have not passed through
'birth, old age'."


16. [Such as Venerable Phu Lunag:] If those who make offerings do
not pass through, birth and old age, dear sir!


　In that case, who in the world of heaven and man has lived through
birth and aging, dear sir? Lord, I ask you, please tell me this.


"If those who make offerings do not pass through": "Those priests
who offer sacrifices, those who make offerings, and those who are greedy
and greedy, they have not passed through birth, old age, and death, have
not surpassed, have not passed through. , not crossed, not overcome,
birth, aging, and death are not escaping, not being left, not being
crossed, not being crossed, not being overcome, they turn in birth, old
age, death, they turn on the cycle of samsara, are Accompanied by birth,
followed by old age, conquered by sickness, tortured by death, for those
who have no shelter, no refuge, no refuge, no refuge." For those who
made offerings did not pass.


"[Like this, Venerable Fulou Nage]": "Like this", the continuation
of the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) Venerable Fulou Nage.


"Sacrifice... Birth and old age, dear sir": "'Sacrifice', sacrifice
many animals, sacrifice many animals, sacrifice many animals. 'Dear
sir', this is a love language, honorific, Synonymous with respect and
obedience, dear sir." For sacrifice...birth and old age, dear sir.


"In that case, who is in the world of heaven and man, who has passed
through birth and aging, dear sir": "And who is in the world including
heaven, in the world including demons, in the world including Brahman;
in the world including ascetic Brahman, in the world including heaven-
In the generation of man, birth, old age, death he passes, transcends,
passes, transcends, overcomes. 'Dear sir', which is a synonym for love,
honorific, respectful, obedient, dear sir." For such and such, who in
the world of heaven and man has passed through birth and aging, dear sir!


"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask you,'
'I ask you; I beg you; I ask you; You make me clear; tell me.' Ask you
for me. "World Honored One", a synonym for respect... Anri (pseudonym)
who testified, namely "World Honored One". "Please tell me this", please
speak, please explain, please teach, please inform, please establish,
Please open it up, please analyze it, please clarify, please explain." I
ask you for the World Honored One, please tell me this.


Because of that, the Brahmin said:


"[Like this Venerable Phu Lunag:] If those who make offerings do not
live through sacrifice, birth and old age, dear sir!


　In that case, who in the world of heaven and man has lived through
birth and aging, dear sir? Lord, I ask you, please tell me this.


17. [World Honored One: " Fulunaga!"] After considering the ups and
downs in the world, for him there is nothing to shake in the world,


　quiet, smoke-free, trouble-free, and wish-free, I say He lived
through "birth, aging". [ AN.3.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.32>]


"Considering the upper and lower in the world": After consideration
is called wisdom, which is wisdom, knowledge and understanding...
(abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing the law, and
right view. "Up and down", the bottom is called one's own individual,
the top is called other individuals; the bottom is called one's own
form, perception, perception, and action, and the top is called other
people's form; , the upper is called the six outer worlds; the lower is
called the world of people, the upper is called the world of heaven; the
lower is called the world of desire, the upper is called the world of
form, the world of formlessness; the lower is called the world of
desire, the world of form The realm is called the formless realm.
"Considering the upper and lower in the world": "Considering the upper
and lower as impermanent, suffering, disease, carbuncle... (abbreviated
in the middle) after renunciation, after he considers [, after knowing],
after understanding, after weighing, After judging, after separating,
after clarifying.” It is after considering the upper and lower in the
world.


"[World Honored One: 'Fulunaga!']": "'Fulunaga', the World Honored
One addressed the Brahmin by his first name. 'World Honored One', this
is a synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) is the World
Honored One." [World-Honored One: "Fulunaga!"]


"There is no place for him to be shaken in the world": "'For him,'
for an arahant; ', the wavering of craving, the wavering of seeing, the
wavering of slowness, the wavering of pollution, the wavering of desire,
for him these shakings do not exist, do not exist, are not known, are
not discovered, have been abandoned, cut off , to be calmed down, to be
stopped, to be unable to arise, to be burnt by the fire of wisdom.
"Anywhere", no matter where, no matter where, no matter where, inside or
outside or outside. "In the world", in the realm of suffering The
world... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world." For him, there was
nothing to shake in the world.


"Silent, smoke-free, trouble-free, and wish-free, I say he passed
through 'birth and aging'": "quiet", greed has been in a still state of
quietness, hatred... (abbreviated) ignorant ...angry ... resentful ...
hiding evil ... all unwholesome contrived state of silence, state of
calm, state of calm, state of extinction, state of cooling, state of
departure, state of cessation are Silence, stillness, calming, cooling,
resting. " is silent. "Smokeless", the evil deeds of the body are
smokeless, destroyed, withered, withered, and eliminated; the words of
evil deeds... (middle) The evil deeds of the mind are smokeless,
destroyed, withered, withered, and eliminated; greed ... hatred ...
delusion is smokeless, destroyed, withered, withered, destroyed; anger
... resentment ... hidden evil ... domineering ... jealousy ... stingy
... deceitful ... cunning ... stubborn ... Passion...slow...extremely
slow...sorrow...lethargy...all pollution...all evil deeds...all
afflictions...all scorching heat...all vexation...all unwholesome
fabrications are smokeless, destroyed, Withered, withered, destroyed.
Or, anger is called smoke:


Brahman! Slowness is indeed your burden, anger is smoke, lies are
ashes,


tongue is a sacrificial ladle, your heart is a sacrificial furnace,
and your self-controlling self is a man's fire. [ SN.7.9
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=7.9>]


Or, anger is aroused with the ten qualities: "He has done my wrong.
[ AN.9.29 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=9.29>]" Anger
arises; "He is not good for me." Anger arises; "He is not good for me."
Anger arises; "He is not good for what I love and agree with." Anger
arises; "He is not good for what I love and agree with." Anger is
aroused; "He is not good for what I do not love and agree with me. The
actions are beneficial (beneficial)." Anger arises; "He will benefit the
unloved, undesired actions I do." Anger arises; "He will benefit the
unloved, undesired actions I do." Anger is generated; or anger is
generated where there is no reason. All the hatred, hostility, aversion,
hostility, hatred, anger, anger, hatred, hatred, wickedness of the heart
like this, hatred, hatred, wrath, anger, angered state, hatred, anger, A
state of anger, aversion, agitation, a state of anger, opposition,
hostility, brutal anger, rage, unpleasantness of the heart, this is
called anger.


In addition, the extreme and small state of anger should be
perceived: sometimes anger is just the degree of a cloudy heart, but not
the degree of frowning; sometimes anger is just the degree of frowning,
but not the degree of clenching the teeth; sometimes Anger is only the
level of gritted teeth, but not the level of harsh words; sometimes
anger is only the level of harsh words, but not the level of looking
around (watching) [knife and stick]; sometimes anger is just looking
around in all directions The degree of anger, but not the degree of
taking the sword and the staff; sometimes the anger is only the degree
of taking the sword and the staff, but not the degree of drawing the
sword and staff; sometimes the anger is only the degree of drawing the
sword and staff, but Less than the level of the blow of the sword;
sometimes anger is only the level of the blow of the sword and staff,
but not enough to cut and interrupt; sometimes anger is only the level
of cutting and interrupting, but not enough to break The extent of the
rupture; sometimes the anger is only the extent of the rupture, but not
as far as each limb is drawn; sometimes the anger is only the extent of
the division of each limb, but not the degree of death; sometimes the
anger is only the degree of To the extent of life, but not to the extent
of abandoning everything that has been established. When the angry
person kills others and then kills himself, the situation is one where
the anger reaches further prosperity, and further reaches growth.
Whoever for him this anger is abandoned, cut off, calmed down, quelled,
unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called a smokeless
one.


The state in which anger has been abandoned is smokeless; the state
in which anger has been known is smokeless; the state in which anger has
been known is smokeless; the state in which anger has been cut off is
smokeless. "Without suffering", greed is suffering; hatred is suffering;
ignorance is suffering; anger is suffering; resentment is suffering...
(Omitted) All unwholesome deeds are suffering. The one who gives up, is
cut off, is calmed down, is stopped, cannot arise, is burned by the fire
of wisdom, he is called the one without suffering.


"Those who have no desire", desire is called craving, which is
greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of greed is
unwholesome. Whoever for him this desire and craving has been abandoned,
cut off, calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of
wisdom, he is called a desireless one. "Birth": birth, birth, entry into
[the womb], arising, arising, manifestation of aggregates, acquisition
of various places in all living beings, in every kind of living beings .
"Aging": aging, senescence, tooth loss, whitening, skin wrinkling,
decline in lifespan, and degeneration of roots in every kind of living
beings among all living beings. "The one who is silent, smokeless,
unaffected, and wishless, I say he passes through 'birth, old age'":
"Whoever is silent, smokeless, unaffected, free of desire, 'born, old,
and dying' he Pass, transcend, pass, pass, overcome.' I speak, I
explain, I teach, I inform, I build, I uncover, I decipher, I elucidate,
I explain." To be silent, smokeless, unaffected Desireless, I say he
goes through "birth, old age."


Because of that, the World-Honored One said,


"[World-Honored One: 'Fulunaga!'] After considering the ups and
downs in the world, for him there is nothing to shake in the world,


　quiet, smokeless, trouble-free, wishless. Yes, I said that he
passed through 'birth and aging'."


At the end of the verse... (abbreviated in the middle), he saluted
the World-Honored One and sat down: "Great virtue! The World-Honored One
is my teacher and I am my disciple."


Fu Lou The third [Completed] of the explanation asked by the Nag
student Brahmin.


Excerpt:
　1. An aging person looks forward to offering sacrifices (= almsgiving)
in the next life, but has not passed through birth and aging.
　2. Those who are unshakable (no view of love and slow pollution),
quiet (quiet all unwholesome deeds), no smoke (cut off anger), no
suffering, no desire (= no craving) pass through birth and aging.
　10/17/2020 15:25
Notes:



