Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
4. Explanation of Maitreya's student Brahman's question
　　18. [Venerable Maitreya like this:] World Honored I ask you, please
tell me this, I think you are one who is familiar with the Vedas and has
practicedby himself,
　　　where do you come from? Becoming: Where are the various forms in
any world?
　　"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask', there
are three kinds of inquiries: the inquiry of the explanation of the
unseen, the inquiry of the confluence of the seen, the inquiry of the
severing of doubts. What is the unseen The inquiries of the explanation?
Originally unknown, unseen, unmeasured, unjudged, unclear,
unintelligible characteristics, for his intellect, seeing, measuring,
judging, clear purpose, clear purpose , he asks the question, which is
the inquiry of the unseen clarification.
　　What is the inquiry of the confluence of the seen? Originally known,
seen, measured, judged, clear, understood, in order to be in harmony
with others The wise and wise men ask questions for the purpose of
joining together. This is the question of the convergence of what is seen.
　　What is the question of the severing of doubts? Is that so? Isn't
that so? What is it? How is it?" He asked the question for the purpose
of cutting off doubt, which is the question of cutting off doubt. These
are three kinds of questions.
　　The next three kinds of questions: the question of man, Questions
that are not human, questions that transform human beings. What is human
questioning? People ask questions after seeing the Buddha and the
World-Honored One: Bhikkhus ask, Bhikkhunis ask, Upasaka asks, Upasikas
ask, Kings ask "The Kshatriyas asked, the Brahmins asked, the Vishas
asked, the Shoudras asked, the lay people asked, the monks asked, this
is a human question.
　　What is a non-human question? The Buddha and the World-Honored One
asked questions: the dragons asked, the golden-winged birds asked, the
yaksha asked, the asuras asked, the Gandhavas asked, the great kings
asked, the Indras asked, the Brahma asked, the gods asked, This is an
inhuman question.
　　What is a human inquiry? [Everything] the form produced by the World
Honored One's creative mind, all limbs and limbs, without lack of roots,
that transformed person went to see the Buddha and the World Honored
asked a question, the World Honored answered [him], this is the
transformation of the human query. These are three kinds of inquiries.
　　The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries for self-interest,
inquiries for the interests of others, and inquiries for the interests
of both. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of the present
interests, inquiries of the interests of the afterlife, and inquiries of
the highest interests. The next three kinds of inquiries: inquiries of
the interests of no fault, inquiries of the interests of innocence, and
inquiries of the interests of clarity. The next three kinds of
inquiries: [about] past inquiries, future inquiries, and present
inquiries. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] inquiries within
oneself, inquiries outside oneself, and inquiries inside and outside
oneself. The next three kinds of inquiries: [about] good inquiries, bad
inquiries, and unremembered inquiries. The next three kinds of
inquiries: the inquiry [about] the aggregate, the inquiry of the realm,
and the inquiry of the place. The next three kinds of inquiries: the
inquiry [about] mindfulness, the inquiry of the righteousness, and the
inquiry of the divine feet. The next three kinds of inquiries are: the
inquiry [about] the root, the inquiry of the force, and the inquiry of
the enlightenment factor. The next three kinds of inquiry: the inquiry
of the Tao, the inquiry of the fruit, and the inquiry of Nirvana.
　　"I ask you", "I ask you; I beg you; I ask you; you make me clear;
please tell me. ' ask you for me. "World Honored One", "This is
synonymous with respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym)
who testified, namely the World Honored One". "Please tell me this",
please say, please explain, please teach, please inform, please
establish, please uncover, please analyze, please clarify, please
explain. "I ask you for the Blessed One, please tell me this.
　　"[Like this Venerable Maitreya]": "Like this, the continuation of
the sentence... (abbreviated in the middle)" is [like this Venerable
Maitreya].
　　"I think you are a Vedic, self-learner": I think you are a Vedas, I
think you are a self-learner, I know so; I know so; I agree so ; I am so
through. "Those who know the Vedas, those who have practiced
themselves", and how is the Blessed One who knows the Vedas? The Vedas
are called wisdom, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, dharma
enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana, and right view on the
four paths. The Blessed One is those who have reached the ultimate
(goal) in the Vedic life; those who have reached the ultimate are those
who have reached the end; those who have reached the end are those who
have reached the limit (the ultimate); those who have reached the limit
have reached the end ; Those who have reached the end, have reached the
ambulance; those who have reached the ambulance, have reached the
refuge; those who have reached the refuge, have reached the place of
refuge; those who have reached the place of refuge have arrived without
terror; have reached Those who have not feared, have reached the undead;
have reached the undead, have reached the undead; have reached the
undead, have reached nirvana; have reached nirvana. Either "the one who
has reached the end of the Vedas" is the one who knows the Vedas, or
"the one who has reached the end of the Vedas" is the one who knows the
Vedas, or the known state of the seven dharmas is the one who knows the
Vedas: there is an experience to be known , Suspicion is known,
abstinence is known, greed [to be known], anger [to be known], ignorance
[to be known], slow to be known, all evil and unwholesome dharmas are
known: follow the pollution, there is again, there is fear , suffering
retribution, and the future will be life, old age and death.
　　[World-Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn.3.6, 534 verses]
　　"Choose all the Vedas, whoever belongs to the ascetic and brahmin
who exist here,
　　　free from greed in all sensations, and after surpassing all the
Vedas, he is One who knows the Vedas."
　　Thus the Blessed One is the one who knows the Vedas.
　　How is the Blessed One who has practiced himself? The World-Honored
One is one who has practiced the body, one who has practiced the mind,
one who has practiced wisdom, one who has practiced mindfulness, one who
has practiced right diligence, one who has practiced spiritual
sufficiency, one who has practiced root, one who has practiced power,
one who has practiced enlightenment factor, For those who have practiced
the Way, who have given up defilements, those who have penetrated and
unshakable, and those who have witnessed the cessation of suffering, for
him, suffering has been fully known, the accumulation has been
abandoned, the Tao has been practiced, and the cessation has been
proved, and the realization should be realized. What is known, what has
been known and should be known, what has been abandoned and should be
abandoned, what has been practiced and should be practiced, what has
been witnessed and should be attested, not small, large, profound,
unmeasurable It is difficult to understand deeply, many treasures, like
the ocean, is the one who possesses the six branches of peace:
　　after seeing the form with the eyes, he is neither happy nor sad but
abiding in peace, the mindful, the wise; the ear hears the sound
Then...after smelling smells with the nose...after tasting the tastes
with the tongue...after touching the body...after knowing the Dharma
with consciousness, one is neither happy nor sad, but rests in peace,
mindful and wise [ DN.33
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=33>Six Permanent Residence].
　　After seeing the form with the eyes, he does not greed for, does not
like, or causes greed to arise. The body is established, the mind is
established, and the self is built and liberated by goodness. After the
unsatisfactory color, he does not become discouraged, has no unsettled
heart, no sadness without intention, no malicious malice, his body is
established, his mind is established, and he is built by goodness and
goodness within himself. relief.
　　After seeing the form with the eyes, the agreeable and unpleasant
forms are already established in the body and the mind, and the self is
built up and liberated well; after hearing the sound with the ear...
(abbreviated in the middle) After the Dharma, both agreeable and
unpleasant Dhammas are established in the body and established in the
mind, and are established and liberated by good things within themselves
[ SN.46.6 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=46.6>].
　　After seeing the color with your eyes, you will not be stained on
those who can stain, you will not be angry on those who can become
angry, you will not become stupid on those who can become stupid, you
will not be angry on those who can get angry, and you will not get drunk
on those who can get drunk. After hearing the sound with the ear...
(Abbreviated in the middle) After knowing the Dharma with consciousness,
you will not be infected with the tainted, not angry with the angry, and
unchanged with the foolishness. Stupidity, do not get angry with those
who can get angry, do not get drunk on those who can get drunk, and do
not pollute on those who can pollute.
　　So much is seen in what is seen; so much is heard in what is heard;
so much is perceived in what is perceived; so much is known in what is
known [ SN.35.95 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.95>],
in what is seen Untainted; untainted with what he smells; untainted with
what he perceives; untainted with what he perceives; unattached with
what he sees, unaffected by [virtue], unreliable, unbound . Having been
liberated and freed from fetters, he lives with a mind free from
restrictions; in what he hears... (in the middle) in what he
perceives... in what he knows, he is free from attachment, no reduction,
and no dependence. those who are not bound. Freed, freed from bondage,
he lives with a mind free from limitations.
　　The World-Honored One has eyes, the World-Honored One sees form with
the eyes, the World-Honored One has no desires, the World-Honored One's
mind is good and liberated; the World-Honored One has ears, the
World-Honored One listens to sounds with ears, the World-Honored One has
no desires, the World-Honored One's mind is good and liberated; the
World-Honored One has a nose, the World-Honored One hears with the nose
Smell, the World Honored One has no desire, the World Honored One is
good at liberation; the World Honored One has a tongue, the World
Honored One tastes the smell with the tongue, the World Honored One has
no desire, the World Honored One is good at liberation; Liberation; the
World-Honored One intends, the World-Honored One knows the Dharma with
consciousness, the World-Honored One has no desires, the World-Honored
One is good at liberation [ SN.35.232
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.232>].
　　The joy with eyes, rejoices in form, rejoices in form, the
World-Honored One has controlled, guarded, guarded, protected, and
taught how to control it; the joy with ears, rejoices in the sound...
Pleasure in the smell of the nose, joy in the smell... Pleasure in the
taste of the tongue, delight in the smell, delight in the smell, the
Blessed One has regulated, guarded, guarded, guarded, and taught the
self-control of it. Thejoy of touch, joy of touch, joy of touch... joy
of mind with Dhamma, joy of Dharma, joy of Dharma, the Blessed One has
regulated, guarded, guarded, guarded, and taught self-control of it.
MN.75 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=75>].
　　"They led the conditioned [dragon elephant] into the assembly, and
the king mounted the conditioned one, and
　　　the conditioned one was the most victorious among men, and he
could endure all insults.
　　　The donkeys and horses that have been regulated are excellent,
those produced by Xindu are steeds,
　　　and Kungara (elephant) is a big dragon elephant, and those who
regulate themselves are even more extraordinary.
　　　It is true that you can go to the unreached direction without
taking these vehicles, and you can go in the direction of
　　　self-control. [Dhp. 321-323]
　　　They are unwavering in all kinds of slowness, they have become
liberated and reborn, they
　　　have reached the level of control, they are victors in the world.
[ SN.22.76 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.76>]
　　　Whoever has his faculties practised, inside and outside himself:
in the world,
　　　piercing this and other worlds, he who has practised while he
waits to die: he is the conditioned one. "[Sn.3.6, 521 verses]
　　Thus is the Blessed One who has practised by himself.
　　"I think you are one who knows the Vedas, who has practiced oneself,
where do all these sufferings arise": "From where", "inquiry of doubt,
inquiry of confusion, inquiry of doubt, inquiry of more than one, this
is a rhetorical question. Words, interrogative irony, why exactly, why
exactly?” Where does it come from. “Suffering”, suffering of birth,
suffering of old age, suffering of sickness, suffering of death,
suffering of sorrow and despair, suffering of loss, suffering of hell,
suffering of beasts , The suffering of evil ghosts, the suffering of
human beings, the suffering of being born in the womb, the suffering of
living in the womb, the suffering of being born from the womb, the
suffering of those who have been born, the suffering of those who have
been born is at the mercy of others (placement) suffering, suffering due
to one's own actions, suffering due to others' actions, suffering,
suffering of actions, suffering of change, diseases of the eyes, ears,
nose, tongue, body, head, external ears, mouth, teeth, Cough, asthma,
external nose disease, fever, old age, abdominal disease, coma,
diarrhea, abdominal pain, cholera, leprosy, tumor, ringworm, lung
disease, epilepsy, ringworm, mange, rheumatism, scratching (a type of
leprosy), Dry and cracked skin, blood gallbladder disease, diabetes,
hemorrhoids, rash (boils and blisters), hemorrhoids (ulcers), diseases
caused by gallbladder, diseases caused by phlegm, diseases caused by
wind, diseases and seasons that combine [three] Diseases caused by
changes, diseases caused by incorrect posture, diseases that come
suddenly, diseases caused by karma, cold, heat, hunger, thirst, feces,
urine, suffering from contact with horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun,
snakes, death of mother Suffering, Suffering from the Lost Father,
Suffering from the Dead Brother, Suffering from the Dead Sister,
Suffering from the Dead Son, Suffering from the Dead Daughter, Suffering
from the Loss of Relatives, Suffering from the Loss of Disease,
Suffering from the Loss of Precepts The suffering of loss, the suffering
of decay of view. From the beginning of these dharmas, arising is known;
from cessation, cessation is known, the result is based on kamma; It is
based on name. Those who are accompanied by birth, followed by old age,
conquered by disease, struck by death, established in suffering, without
shelter, without refuge, without refuge, without refuge, these are
called suffering. Where do these sufferings arise? Where do they arise?
Where do they arise? Where do they arise? Where do they arise? Where do
they arise? What are their causes? What are their causes? He asks about
the root of suffering; he asks about causes; he asks about causes; he
asks about becoming; he asks about generation; he asks about waiting; he
asks food; he asks objects; , ask, make it clear." For where these
sufferings arise.
　　"Everything in every form in the world": "'Everything', all
completely, every aspect completely, nothing leftover, the whole, this
is the universally taken word for 'everything'. In the world of
suffering, in the world of human beings, in the world of gods, in the
world of khandhas, in the world of worlds, in the world of beings.
"Various forms", various types and types of suffering. ' for all the
different forms in any world.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venerable Maitreya like this:] Lord, I ask you, please tell me
this, I think you are a Veda-savvy, self-cultivator,
　　　from where these sufferings arise: All kinds of different forms in
any world?"
　　19. [World Honored One: "Maitreya!"] You ask me about the occurrence
of suffering, and I will say that for you as someone who knows:
Suffering occurs because
　　　of attachment: any kind of suffering occurs. Different shapes in
the world.
　　"You ask me about the occurrence of suffering": "The 'suffering',
the suffering of birth, the suffering of old age, the suffering of
sickness, the suffering of death, the suffering of sorrow, sorrow and
despair. You ask about causes; you ask about causes; you ask about
arising; you ask about occurrence; you ask about waiting; you ask about
food; you ask about objects; you ask about conditions; you ask about
sets, you [strongly ask,] beg, ask, make clear ." Ask me about the
occurrence of suffering for you. "'Maitreuk', the World Honored One
addressed that Brahman by name. 'World Honored One', this is a synonym
for respect... (Abbreviated in the middle) testifying to Anli
(pseudonym), that is, the World Honored." For [World Honored:
"Maitreuk!"] .
　　"I will say that for you as one who knows": "'that', 'I will say the
root of suffering; I will say the cause; I will say arising; I will say
happening; I will say waiting; I will say eating; I will talk about
objects; I will talk about relationships; I will talk about collections,
I will explain, I will teach, I will inform, I will build, I will
uncover, I will analyze, I will clarify, I will explain.” For I will
tell you that. "As one who knows", such as one who knows, one who
understands, one who perceives others, one who knows for sure, and one
who penetrates, not from hearsay, not from hearsay, not from tradition,
not from the teachings of scriptures, Not from logical deductions, not
from reasoning, not from theoretical contemplation, not from insights
accepted after contemplation, but the Dharma that has been personally
verified and self-realized by oneself, and I will say that.” I will say
it for you as someone who knows it. that one.
　　"Dependence is the cause of suffering": "There are ten kinds of
attachment: attachment to craving, attachment to vision, attachment to
pollution, attachment to karma, attachment to evil deeds, The attachment
to food, the attachment to aversion, the attachment to the fourclinging
worlds, the attachment to the six inner bases, the attachment to the six
types of consciousness, and the attachment to all suffering with the
righteousness of the mind, these are called the ten attachments.
"Suffering", suffering of birth, suffering of old age, suffering of
sickness, suffering of death, suffering of grief, sorrow, despair,
suffering of loss, suffering of hell... (abbreviated in the middle) the
suffering of decay. From the beginning of these dharmas, the arising of
Knowing; from extinction, extinction is known, the result is based on
karma; the karma is based on the result, the name is based on form; To
strike, to be dwelled in suffering, to have no shelter, to have no
refuge, to have no refuge, to have no refuge, these are called
suffering. These sufferings are caused by dependence, connected by
dependence, and dependent on dependence. With attachment as the
condition, and attachment as the cause, they occur, arise, be arisen, be
born, be born, be born." Suffering occurs because attachment is the cause.
　　"Everything in every form in the world": "'Everything', all
completely, every aspect completely, nothing leftover, the whole, this
is the universally taken word for 'everything'. "Middle", the world of
suffering, the world of human beings, the world of devas, the world of
khandha, the world of worlds, the world of beings. "All kinds of forms,"
​​all kinds of, all kinds of suffering." For any world of various colors.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Maitreuk!'] You ask me about the occurrence of
suffering, and I will say that for you as someone who knows: Suffering
occurs
　　　because of attachment: all the various forms of suffering in any
world.
　　20. For those who are ignorant who rely on them, suffering comes to
the stupid again and again,
　　　so those who know should not be dependents: those who are born and
who are born and who follow.
　　"Anyone who is ignorant to rely on": "'Any', whatever is like, such
as effort, such as arrangement, such as kind, any place that has been
reached, any Kshatriya who has the Dharma, or Brahman, or Vaisha, or
chief Dhara, either a lay person, a monk, a god, or a human being. "The
ignorant" refers to those who have entered ignorance, the ignorant, the
indistinguishable, and the inferior. , Depends on views, Depends on
pollution, Depends on work, Depends on evil deeds, Depends on food,
Depends on loathing, Depends on the four clinging realms, Depends on the
six inner bases Depend on it, be the cradle of the six types of
consciousness, make it come into being, make it produce, make it arise,
make it arise." For all the ignorant who depend on it.
　　"Suffering comes again and again to the ignorant": "'Birth suffers,
old age suffers, sickness suffers, death suffers, sorrow, grief, despair
and despair come again and again, fully reach, reach, hold, grasp, cling
to.' For suffering comes again and again. 'Dumb', the ignorant, the
ignorant, the ignorant, the one who has entered into ignorance, the
ignorant, the indistinguishable, the poor-wisdom." Again and again for
suffering it reaches the ignorant.
　　"Therefore those who know should not be attached": "'Therefore',
'That reason; that cause; that condition; that cause, when seeing the
fault of this clinging.' For this reason. 'Those who know', The one who
understands, the one who understands, the one who understands, the one
who understands, the one who penetrates: "All actions are impermanent"
who understands, who understands, who understands, who understands, who
understands. "All actions are suffering"... (Middle abbreviation) "All
actions are non-self"... (Middle abbreviation) Those who understand,
understand, understand, understand, and penetrate "every collection of
dharmas are dharmas". "Should not rely on them", should not be attached
to craving, should not be attached to views, should not be attached to
pollution, should not be attached to work, should not be attached to
evil deeds, should not be attached to food, It should not be attached to
aversion, it should not be attached to the four clinging elements, it
should not be attached to the six inner bases, it should not be attached
to the six types of consciousness, it should not be produced, it should
not be produced It should not be made to arise, it should not be made to
arise." Because of this, those who know should not rely on it.
　　"'Suffering': suffering from birth, suffering from old age,
suffering from sickness, suffering from death, suffering from grief,
sorrow, despair, and suffering. 'The observer of birth': the observer of
the root of suffering, the observer of the cause, Follower of cause,
follower of arising, follower of generation, follower of equalization,
follower of eating, follower of object, follower of condition, follower
of gathering. Vipassana is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the law, right view. Having, fully possessing, reaching, fully reaching,
possessing, fully possessing, possessing this vipassanā wisdom, he is
called A watcher." A watcher of the birth and production of suffering.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Anyone who is dependent on the ignorant, suffers again and again to
the ignorant,
　　　so the one who knows should not be the one who is dependent:
Suffering is born, and the observer is born."
　　21. Whoever we ask you, what do you do? We tell, we're going to ask
you something else, come on! Tell me, please,
　　　how the wise have gone beyond the storm, born, old and sorrowful,
weeping?
　　　Please Muni explain that thoroughly for me, because like this you
are the knower of these dharmas.
　　"Whatever we ask you, you speak for us": "whatever we ask you, what
we beg, what we ask, what makes us clear. 'You speak for us', told,
explained, explained, taught , to be told, to be established, to be
uncovered, to be parsed, to be elucidated, to be explained." You tell us
what we ask of you.
　　"We want to ask you something else, come! Please tell that": "We
want to ask you something else; we want to ask you something else; we
want to ask you something else; we want you to purify something else; we
want to ask You are better. "Come! Please tell that", come! Please tell;
Please explain; Please teach; Please inform; Please establish; Please
explain." For we want to ask you something else, come on! Please tell that.
　　"How do the wise go through turbulence, birth, old age and sorrow,
weeping": "How?" "Inquiry of doubt, inquiry of perplexity, inquiry of
doubt, inquiry of more than one, these are rhetorical words,
interrogative irony , Why, why?" Why? "The wise", the wise are the wise,
the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise. "Burst", the
storm of desire, the storm of some, the storm of seeing, the storm of
ignorance. "Birth" refers to birth, birth, entry into the womb ,
arising, arising, manifestation of aggregates, acquisition of various
places in all living beings, in every kind of living beings . "Aging":
aging, senescence, tooth loss, whitening, skin wrinkling, decline in
lifespan, and degeneration of roots in every kind of living beings among
all living beings. "Sorrow", touched by the loss of relatives
(unfortunate), or the loss of property, or the loss of disease, or the
loss of precepts (loss), or the loss of seeing, has (encountered) a
certain Some losses, those who come into contact with some bitter
dharmas, worry, sorrow, state of sorrow, internal sorrow, internal
sorrow, internal burning, internal burning, heart burning, worry, worry
arrows. "Weeping", touched by the misfortune of the relatives... (middle
abbreviation) or the misfortune of seeing, those who have some
misfortunes, who come into contact with some suffering methods have
lamentation, lamentation, weeping, lamentation, lamentation state,
lamentation The state of state, speech, unhelpful words, muttering,
weeping, weeping, weeping.
　　"How do the wise pass through the storm, be born, age, and sorrow,
and weep": "How do the wise pass, pass, pass, pass, overcome the storm,
be born, age, sorrow, and weep?" For the wise How do they go through the
storm, birth, old age and sorrow, weeping?
　　"Please Muni explain that for me thoroughly": "'that', whoever I
ask; whatever I beg for; whatever I ask for; whatever makes me clear.
'Muni', Muna is called wisdom, That is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the Dharma, and right view, the World-Honored One possesses that wisdom
to be Muni and to reach Muni. There are three kinds of muni behaviors
(perfect virtues): body muni behavior and speech muni behavior. , Mind
Muni behavior.
　　What is body Muni behavior? The abandonment of the three kinds of
bad behaviors is the body Muni behavior; the three kinds of good body
behaviors are the body Muni behavior; the wisdom on the object of the
body is the body Muni behavior; Ubiquitous knowledge is the practice of
body muni; the way that walks with omniscience is practice of body muni;
renunciation of desire and greed about the body is practice of body
muni; Body Muni behavior, this is body Muni behavior.
　　What is speech Muni behavior? The abandonment of the four bad speech
behaviors is the speech Muni behavior; the four good speech behaviors
are speech Muni behaviors; wisdom on the object of speech Acting for
Word Muni; omniscient knowledge of language is acting for Yu Muni; the
way that goes with omniscience is acting for Yu Muni; abandoning desire
and greed for language is acting for Yu Muni; The second jhana of
extinction is the practice of speech muni. This is the practice of
speech muni.
　　What is the practice of intention? The wisdom of the object is the
practice of the mind; the omniscient knowledge of the mind is the
practice of the mind; the way that goes together with the omniscience is
the practice of the mind; the renunciation of the desire and greed of
the mind is the practice of the mind; the mind The cessation of thoughts
and feelings of cessation is mind-muni behavior. This is mind-muni
behavior.
　　"Body Muni, speech Muni, and mind Muni have no leakage.
　　　Muni is the one who has complete Muni behavior. They say it is the
equanimity of everything." Those who are cut off. The
　　　body muni, the speech muni, and the mind muni are free from
afflictions, and the muni is a muni
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=67>
　　　who has complete
deeds.<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=67>]'
　　There are six kinds of munis who possess these three kinds of muni
practices: "at-home muni, homeless muni, learned muni, no-learning muni,
pratyeka muni, muni [in] muni. 』Which are the Munis at home? Those lay
people who have seen the footprints and have understood the teachings
are lay munis. Which are homeless munis? Those monks who have seen their
footprints and have understood the teachings are homeless Munis. The
seven types of learning are Munis with learning, Arahants are Munis
without learning, pratyekabuddhas are Munis, and Tathagatas, Arhats, and
fully enlightened ones are Munis.
　　"Not with Muna (silence) as the Muni, the ignorant and ignorant of
　　　all shapes and forms, after lifting the scales, they will become
wise and wise after taking the top one.
　　　Avoid all evils, the Muni becomes a Muni because of that, and
　　　anyone who understands the inner and outer aggregates in the world
is called a Muni because of that.
　　　After knowing the unwholesome and good Dharma, both inside and
outside of the world, after
　　　being offered (respected) by gods and people, after transcending
the net, he is a Muni. "
　　Explain thoroughly", please explain that thoroughly; please teach,
please inform, please establish, please uncover, please analyze, please
clarify, please explain. "To ask Muni to explain that thoroughly for me.
"Because like this you are the knower of these things": "Because like
this you are the knower, the measurer, the judger, the clearer, the
understander." Because like this you are the knower of these things.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"Whatever we ask of you, tell us what we ask you, and we will ask
you about the rest, come! Tell that,
　　　how the wise have gone through turbulence, birth, old age, and
sorrow, and weeping. What?
　　　Ask Muni to explain that thoroughly for me, because like this you
are the knower of these dharmas."
　　22. [World-Honored One: "Maitreya!"] I will tell you the Dharma, in
the present life andnot in rumors, those
　　　who know the mind behind them will be able to overcome the love in
the world.
　　"I will tell you the Dharma": "'Dharma', the beginning is good, the
middle is good, the end is good; it is meaningfuland has words; the holy
life is completely complete and pure: four mindfulness, four right
effort, I will tell, I will explain, I will teach, I will inform, I will
build, I will uncover , I will parse, I will elucidate, I will explain."
For I will tell you the Dharma. "Maitregu," the Blessed One addressed
the Brahman by his first name.
　　"In life and not hearsay": "'in life', 'in the law seen (in life);
in the law known; in the law measured; in the law made clear Above: "All
actions are impermanent"... (abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection
of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" means on the dharma that is seen
(at birth); on the dharma that is known; on the dharma that is measured;
In the clarified Dhamma, this is what I will tell in this life. Or, I
will tell you about the suffering of being seen; I will tell you about
the set of being seen; I will tell you about the way of being seen; I
will tell you about the way of being seen; The annihilation above the
annihilation seen, this is what I will talk about in the present life.
Or, it is "immediately visible, immediate, please see, guide, and should
be experienced by the wise." ' for life. "Non-rumor", not from hearsay,
not from rumors, not from tradition, not from the teachings of
scriptures, not from logical deduction, not reasoning, not because of
theoretical reflection, not because of opinions accepted after
meditation, but by myself. The Dharma of realization, self-realization,
and I'll talk about that. ' is in life and not in hearsay.
　　"Those who practice mind after knowing": "Those who know, measure,
judge, discriminate, and clarify: 'All actions are impermanent' after
knowing, measuring, judging, discriminating, After clarifying; "All
actions are suffering"..."All dharmas are non-self"... (Abbreviated in
the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" After
knowing, measuring, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying Afterwards.
"Those who are mindful" are mindful in four ways: they are mindful when
they practice mindfulness of the body along with the body...
(Abbreviated in the middle) They are called mindful. The time of
walking, the time of staying, the time of action, the time of turning,
the time of guarding, the time of making existence, the time of making
existence.” For those who know the hindsight with mindfulness.
　　"Love that can pass through the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Love", what is the meaning of
love? Love is "spread"; love is "large"; love is "widespread"; love is
"unrighteous"; love is "it forces"; love is "it takes"; The deceiver is
love; the root of poison is love; the fruit of poison is love; the
poison is used for love; ... tastes ... touches ... homes ... people ...
dwellings ... profits ... fame ... praise ... happiness ... clothes ...
food ... reclining chairs ... the needs of the sick, the necessities of
medicine ... Desire Realm... Form Realm... Formless Realm... Desires...
Forms... Formless... Desires... No Desires... Non-thoughts,
non-desires... One aggregate... Four aggregates... ...the five
aggregates have...the past...the future...the present...the enlarged
attachments in the dharmas that are seen, heard, felt, and can be known"
is love. "In the world" refers to the world of suffering, the world of
human beings, the world of gods, the world of khandha, the world of
worlds, and the world of beings. "Can pass through the love in the
world": "The love in the world, or the love in the world [ Ni.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>], he can pass, transcend, pass,
pass, overcome. "To be able to pass through the love in the world.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Maitreuk!'] I will teach you the Dharma. Those
who live in life and not hearsay, and those
　　　who know the mind behind them, will be able to overcome the love
in the world."
　　23. I'm very happy with that, Daxian! The supreme method is that
　　　all practitioners who know the hindrance of mindfulness can
overcome the love in the world.
　　"I rejoice over that": "'that', your words, ways of speaking,
teachings, admonitions, admonitions. 'I rejoice', I rejoice, I rejoice,
I rejoice, I want, I use, I Begging, I hope, I long for, I pray."
Rejoice in that for me.
　　"Great Immortal! The Supreme Dharma": "'Great Immortal', why is the
World-Honored One a Great Immortal? "The seeker, seeker, and seeker of
the Great Precept Aggregate" is the Great Immortal; ... "The seeker,
seeker, and seeker of the aggregate of knowledge and view of great
liberation" is the great immortal; "the seeker, seeker, and seeker of
the brokenness gathered by the great darkness" is the great immortal;
"the seeker of the great upside-down destruction" "seeker, seeker,
seeker" is the great immortal; "seeker, seeker, seeker of the drawn out
of the great thirst for arrows" is the great immortal; "Seeker" is the
Great Immortal; "The seeker, pursuer, and seeker of the Great Slow
Flag's retraction" is the Great Immortal; "The seeker, seeker, and
seeker of transcendence" is the great immortal; "the seeker, pursuer,
and seeker of the great burden of letting go" is the great immortal;
"Seeker" is the Great Immortal; "The seeker, seeker, and seeker of the
cessation of the great heat and vexation" is the Great Immortal; The
upright seekers, pursuers, and seekers are great immortals; ...the Great
Eightfold Path...the seeker, seeker, and seeker of immortal nirvana of
the great and supreme interests" is a great immortal; "is sought,
sought, and sought after by beings of great power: where is the Buddha?
Where is the Blessed One? Where is the god of the gods? Where is the
king of cows among men?" He is a great immortal. "Supreme Dharma", the
supreme Dharma is called immortality and nirvana, which is the cessation
of all actions, the cessation of all actions, the cessation of all
thoughts, and the thirst for thirst. The cessation of love, the
cessation of greed, the cessation of nirvana. "The highest (the)", the
first, the most victorious, the sublime, the highest, the highest, the
highest Dharma." Great Immortal! Supreme law.
　　"Those who practice mindfulness after knowing": "[Everything] is
known, measured, judged, differentiated, clear: 'All actions are
impermanent' after known, measured, judged, After separation, after
clarifying; "All actions are suffering"..."All dharmas are non-self"...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of
dharmas" After knowing, evaluating, judging, and separating , After
clarification. "Those with mindfulness", there are four ways to be
mindful: when you practice mindfulness on the body, follow the body, you
are mindful, when you feel... (abbreviated in the middle), on the
mind... In all dharmas, he is mindful when he is mindful of the
dharma... He is called mindful. The "walker", when walking, staying,
moving, turning up, guarding, perpetuating, to live." For those who know
the hindrance of mindfulness.
　　"Love that can pass through the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. "Love", what is the meaning of love? "...(Middle
abbreviation) Enlarged attachment" is love. "In the world", in the world
of suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world. "Can pass
through the love in the world": "The love in the world, or the love in
the world, he can pass through thoughtfully, can transcend, can pass,
can cross, can overcome." love in the world.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"I'm very happy with that, great immortal! The supreme Dharma,
　　　whoever knows the mindfulness of hindsight, can overcome the love
in the world."
　　24. [World Honored One: "Maitreya!"] Anything What you are aware of
　　　is the joy and abiding in the upper, lower, and middle four
directions, and the consciousness that has been removed will not remain
in existence.
　　"Anything you know well": "Anything you know, you understand, you
know, you know for sure, you understand." For whatever you know.
"'Maitreuk', the World Honored One addressed that Brahman by name.
'World Honored One', this is a synonym for respect... (Abbreviated in
the middle) testifying to Anli (pseudonym), that is, the World Honored."
For [World Honored: "Maitreuk!"] .
　　"In the upper, lower, and middle squares": "'up' is the future,
'down' is the past, the "middle square" is the present; "up" is the
world of heaven, "down" is the world of hell, and the "middle square" It
is the world of human beings. Or, "up" is good law, "down" is
unwholesome law, "middle square" is non-remarkable law; "up" is formless
realm, "down" is desire realm, and "middle four directions" is form
realm "Up" is a pleasant feeling, "down" is a painful feeling, "middle
square" is neither painful nor pleasant; "up" is above the soles of the
feet, "down" is below the hair, and "middle square" is in the middle. ”
for the top, bottom, and middle quads.
　　"Rejoicing and abiding in these, the removed consciousness will not
abide in being": "in these", in being explained, taught, informed,
established, uncovered, analyzed, understood To clarify, to be
explained. Joy is called craving, and it is greed, greed... (Abbreviated
in the middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Dwelling", there
are two kinds of dwelling: dwelling with craving and dwelling with
seeing. How is it that craving dwells? All those who are called by
craving... (abbreviated in the middle) this is the dwelling of craving.
What is see live? There are twenty repositories who have body views...
(abbreviated in the middle) This is where the view lives.
　　"Consciousness after removal": "Consciousness that accompanies
virtuous activities, consciousness that accompanies non-blessing
activities, and consciousness that accompanies immobility [ SN.12.51
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.51>]. Rejoice in these
with the consciousness that accompanies dwelling (pretendence) After
removal, after removal, after removal, after removal, please abandon,
abandon, drive away, make an end, and bring it to non-existence.” For
the joy and abiding in these, the consciousness after removal.
　　"There is no abiding in existence": "existence", there are two kinds
of existence: karmic existence and rebirth-related existence. What is
karma? Blessed behavior, non-blessed behavior, and immovable
behavior—this is karma. What is rebirth? The form, feeling, perception,
formation, and consciousness of rebirth are reborn. "There is no abiding
in existence": "The existence of consciousness and kamma that is
accompanied by the joy of existence and the formation of rebirth and
rebirth, the abandonment, expulsion, termination, and making it go to
non-existence, the existence of karma. It won't stand; it won't stand,
won't stand on rebirth and rebirth." For the consciousness that has been
removed will not stand on existence.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said:
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Maitreuk!'] Whatever you know, above, below,
and in the middle,
　　　Joy and abiding in these things, the consciousness that has been
removed will not abide in existence.
　　25. Those who live in this way, are mindful, do not let go: After a
monk has abandoned all attachments to himself, he is
　　　born, old, and sorrowful and weeps, and it is here that the wise
can abandon suffering.
　　"Those who live in this way, are mindful, and do not let go":
"'Those who live in this way (people)', "pleasure the existence of
consciousness and karma that go hand in hand with the practice of
abiding, as well as the renunciation, expulsion, and termination of
rebirth, rebirth, and rebirth. Make it go to the non-existent." For such
a dweller. "Considering (the person)", there are four ways to be
conscientious: When practising the mindfulness of the body along with
the body... (abbreviated in the middle) he is Called those who are
mindful. "Those who do not let loose" are those who are respectful,
those who do not let go, those who do not stop, those who have the habit
of not being attached, those who do not neglect their desires, those who
do not neglect their responsibilities in the good Dharma, and those who
do not let loose. "How can I complete the unfinished aggregate of
precepts, or the completed aggregate of precepts can be aided everywhere
with wisdom?" Wherever he is willful, diligent, courageous, striving,
unafraid, mindful, wise, zealous, diligent , established, practiced, not
slack, not slack in the good Dharma; "How can I complete the unfinished
aggregate of concentration... (abbreviated in the middle) the aggregate
of wisdom...the aggregate of liberation...how can I complete the
unfinished wisdom of liberation Can the aggregate of view, or the
completed aggregate of liberated knowledge, be able to help everywhere
with wisdom?” Wherever there is desire, energy, courage, effort,
undying, mindfulness, clear understanding, zeal, industriousness,
establishment, practice, no slack not slack in good Dharma; "How can I
know all the suffering that I don't know, or how can I let go of the
pollution that I haven't given up, or how can I practice the way that I
haven't practiced, or how can I testify about the cessation that I
haven't testified?" There he is willful, diligent, courageous, striving,
undaunted, mindful, wise, zealous, diligent, established, practiced, not
slack, not slack in good things." To dwell in this way, mindful, not
looser.
　　"After a monk has abandoned all his attachments": "'Bhikkhu', a monk
of good and ordinary people, or a monk of learning. A 'walker', when
walking, staying, moving, turning up, guarding, making existence, When
it comes to survival. "My attachments", there are two kinds of
attachments: the attachment of [because of] craving and the attachment
of [due to] seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the attachment
of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is my attachment to
seeing... After I have given up my attachment to craving; After the end
of the work, make it come to non-existence." After the monks have
abandoned all attachments to the self.
　　"Birth, old age and sorrow, weeping, it is here that the wise can
renounce suffering": "birth", among all living beings... (abbreviated in
the middle). "Aging": Among all sentient beings... (abbreviated in the
middle). "Sorrow", touched by the loss (unfortunate) of relatives...
(slightly omitted). "Sorrow", touched by the misfortune of relatives...
(slightly omitted). "Here" belongs to this view... (abbreviated in the
middle) in this person's world. "Wise people" are those who have reached
enlightenment, those who are wise, those who are wise, those who are
wise. "Bitterness" means suffering from birth... (middle) sorrow and
despair. "Birth, old age and sorrow, and weeping, here is where the wise
can give up suffering": "Here is the birth of the enlightened, the wise,
the wise, the wise, and the old and sorrowful, and the weeping one can
give up, can To drive away, to end, to bring it to non-existence." For
birth, old age and sorrow, weeping, it is here that the wise can
renounce suffering.
　　Because of that, the World
　　-Honored One said: "Those who live in this way, mindful, and never
let go: after the monks have abandoned all
　　　attachments to oneself, they are born, old, and sorrowful and
weeping, and it is here that the wise can give up suffering."
　　26. I am overjoyed . The words of the great immortal are eloquently
told: Gotama is the author of no one,
　　　World Honored One! Because it is true that you have given up
suffering, because these dharmas have been known to you like this.
　　"I am very happy with this word of Daxian": "'This', your words,
language, teaching, teaching, admonition. I am happy, I am very happy, I
am happy, I am happy, I want, I use [ , I beg], I hope, I yearn, I beg.
"Great Immortal", why is the World-Honored One a Great Immortal? Where
is the Bull King?” Daxian.” I am very happy with Daxian’s words.
　　"Telling: Gautama is an unreliable author": "'Telling', 'Telling [,
interpreting], interpreting, teaching, informing, establishing, good
What is revealed, what is good at analysis, what is good at explaining,
what is good at explaining." For good telling. "Gautama is the author of
no basis." severance, cessation of attachment, cessation of thought
through attachment, cessation of attachment, immortality, nirvana."
Narrated for good: Gautama is the author of no attachment.
　　"World-Honored One, because it is true that you have given up
suffering": "'Really', this is the word of decisive (always), the word
of doubt, the word of self-confidence, the word of non-duality, the word
of doubtless thought, the word of command, the word of no Wrong words [,
words that do not fail], words of certainty, are "sure". "World Honored
One", "this is a synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the middle)
testifying to Anli (pseudonym), that is, the World Honored". "You give
up Cut off the suffering", the suffering of birth, old age, sickness,
death, sorrow, sorrow, despair, you have given up, given up, cast away,
done with the end, and made it cease to exist." For the World Honored
One! Because indeed you have given up suffering.
　　"Because these dharmas have been known to you": "Because these
dharmas have been known to you, measured, judged, understood,
understood." Because these dharmas have been known to you.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"I am overjoyed at the words of the great immortal, which are well
narrated: Gotama is a dependant,
　　　Blessed One! For indeed you have given up suffering, because these
dharmas have been known to you like this."
　　27. They are indeed able to give up suffering: where Muni you will
continue to teach,
　　　After I meet you, I salute you: Dragon Elephant! Perhaps the
Blessed One will continue to instruct me.
　　"They are indeed able to give up suffering": "'They' are Kshatriyas,
Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and people.
Sickness, death, sorrow, sorrow, despair, they can give up, they can
drive away, they can bring an end to it, and they can bring it to
non-existence.” For they can indeed give up suffering.
　　"Any Muni you will continue to teach": "'Everyone...' are Kshatriya,
Brahmins, Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, and people. 'You',
he said, World Honored One "Muni", Muna is called wisdom... (Middle
abbreviated) After transcending the net, he is Muni. "He will continue
to teach", he will continue to teach, he will teach thoroughly, and he
will continue to teach. Admonish, will teach again and again, will
teach." For Fan Muni you will continue to teach.
　　"After I met you, I bowed down to you: the dragon elephant": "'You,'
he said, World Honored One. "I bow down," I bow with my body, or I bow
with my words, or I bow with my heart, or I bow Salute as it means, or I
salute, reverence, respect, reverence, reverence [, reverence] in
accordance with the law. "After meeting", after meeting, completely
meeting, meeting, completely meeting, I am from your presence Respect.
"Dragon Elephant", "Dragon Elephant and the World Honored One will not
commit crimes" is the Dragon Elephant; "Do not go" is the Dragon
Elephant; "Do not come" is the Dragon Elephant. How is "The World
Honored One will not commit crimes" as the Dragon Elephant? The crime is
called For evil and unwholesome dharmas: obey the polluted, the
reoccurrence, the fear, the bitter retribution, the future birth, old
age and death.
　　[World Honored: "Serbia!"] [Sn.3.6, 527 verse]
　　"Do not do anything in the world. Any offense, after letting go of
all fetters and bonds,
　　　without clinging to everything, and having been freed, is truly
called a dragon elephant."
　　This is "the World Honored One who does not commit crimes" as a
dragon elephant.
　　What is the "World Honored One" as a dragon elephant? World Honored
One who does not get rid of desires should not go; those who do not get
rid of hatred should not go; Go away because of ignorance; not because
of slowness; not because of seeing; not because of ignorance; not
because of doubts; not away because of vexation potential trends; not to
be carried away by quarrels (disharmony) walk, carry, carry. In this
way, "The World Honored One will not go" is a dragon elephant.
　　What is the "World Honored One" as a dragon elephant? All the
contaminations discarded by the Sudavan Path, those contaminations he
will no longer experience, do not return, and will not return; those
contaminations that have been abandoned by the Arahant Way, those
contaminations that are abandoned by the Arahant Way He no longer
experiences, does not retreat, does not go back. In this way, "The World
Honored One will not come" is a dragon elephant. "I salute you after
meeting you: Dragon Elephant.
　　"Maybe the Blessed One will continue to teach me": "Maybe the
Blessed One will continue to teach, he will teach thoroughly, he will
continue to teach, he will teach again and again, he will teach me."
admonish me.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"They can also give up suffering: you will continue to teach those
who are Muni, and
　　　when I meet you, I will pay respects to you: the dragon elephant!
Perhaps the Blessed One will continue to teach me."
　　28 Whoever a Brahmin can prove to be knowledgeable about the Vedas,
who has no owner, who has no attachment to desires and beings, has
　　　indeed passed through the storm, and has crossed the other shore
as one who is not desolate and who is not doubtful.
　　"Any Brahmins who can prove that they know the Vedas": "'Brahmins',
those who have been excluded from the seven dharmas are Brahmins: body
view is excluded, doubt is excluded, precepts are excluded, greed is
excluded, hatred is excluded, Delusions are eliminated, arrogance is
eliminated, those evil and unwholesome dharmas are eliminated: conform
to pollution, re-existence, fear, suffering, and death in the future.
　　　　[World Honored One: "Sebiya!"] [Sn. 3.6, 524 verses]
　　After eliminating all evil, the good that is free from defilement
enters the state of being settled,
　　After he transcends samsara he becomes a perfect one, and those who
do not depend on him like this can be called a Brahman.
　　"Knowing the Vedas": "The Vedas are called the wisdom of the four
realms... (abbreviated in the middle) After surpassing all the Vedas, he
is the one who knows the Vedas. "Able to prove knowledge", to be able to
prove knowledge, to understand, to distinguish, to know for sure, and to
penetrate. ' For all Brahmins who can certify as knowledgeable of the
Vedas.
　　"No owner, no attachment to desire and existence": "No owner", greed
is a thing (obstacle); hatred is a thing; delusion is a thing; arrogance
is a thing; seeing is a thing; pollution is a thing; evil deeds are a
thing, and whoever for him any of these has been abandoned, cut off,
calmed down, ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he
is called ownerless. "Desire", there are two kinds of desire from the
ode: the desire for things and the desire for pollution... (Abbreviated
in the middle) These are called the desire for things... (Abbreviated in
the middle) These are called the desire for pollution. "There are",
there are two kinds of existence: the existence of karma and the rebirth
of rebirth... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the reincarnation of
rebirth. "No owner, no attachment to desire and existence": "He who has
no possession is one who has no attachment, no attachment, no fixation,
and no hindrance in desire [and] existence. Abandoned, separated,
liberated, freed from bondage, he abides with a mind free from
limitations." He is one who has no owner, no attachment to desire and
existence.
　　"It is true that he has passed through the storm": "'Indeed', this
is the decisive (always) word... (abbreviated in the middle) the
definite word, it is 'sure'. The storm of seeing, the storm of seeing,
the storm of ignorance. 'Crossing', he transcended, passed, passed,
passed." For sure he passed on the storm.
　　"And have crossed over the other shore, those who are not desolate,
those who do not doubt": "'Have crossed', the storm of desire has
passed; some storms have passed; the storm of seeing has passed; the
storm of ignorance has passed The flow has passed; the cycle of samsara
has passed, has surpassed, has crossed, has crossed, has passed, has
overcome, he is the one who has descended, the one who has done the
action, the one who has completed the journey, the one who has reached
the direction, the one who has Those who have reached the end, those who
have guarded the holy life, those who have reached the highest view,
those who have practised the Way, those who have given up defilements,
those who have penetrated and unshakable, those who have witnessed the
cessation of suffering, for him, suffering is omniscient, and the
collection has been abandoned. renunciation, Dao has been practiced,
cessation has been proved, realized what should be realized, realized
what should be realized, abandoned what should be abandoned, practiced
what should be practiced, realized what should be realized He is the one
who lifts the bar, the one who fills the ditches, the one who removes
the pillar, the one who does not have the bar, the one who has fallen
down the banner of the saint, the one who has lifted the burden, the one
who has been separated, the one who has given up five branches, the one
who has broken down the six branches. Those who possess it, have one
guardian, four reliances, those who have removed their own truth, those
who have sought and given up and completely perished, those who have no
turbulent intentions, those who have calmed their bodies and actions,
those who are good in mind and liberated, and those who are liberated by
wisdom. The highest person who has been fully completed, the supreme
person, who has attained the supreme achievement, he neither composes
nor disassembles, does not accumulate and then stands; neither gives up
nor clings, he stands after giving up; Do not disperse (Thai version)
nor accumulate, stand after dispelling; neither extinguish nor light,
stand after extinguishing [ SN.22.79
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.79>], is the
established person with the state of the unlearned precept aggregate...
the unlearned concentration aggregate... (middle abbreviated) the wisdom
aggregate... the liberation aggregate... the established person with the
state of liberated knowledge and view, completes and penetrates the
truth ( The one who has settled after the truth), the one who has
settled after crossing the disturbance (dynamic greed), the one who has
settled after the polluted fire has been extinguished, the one who has
settled in the state of no longer coming back completely, has grasped
[the victory over] Afterwards, those who have established themselves,
those who have taken advantage of the state of liberation, those who
have established themselves in a state of emancipation, those who have
established themselves in the universally pure kindness, those who have
established themselves with compassion... Those who are not equal to the
other (Ceylon version) have established themselves in the state of
universal purity, have established themselves in the state of
liberation, have established themselves in the state of fulfillment, and
have established themselves on the boundary of aggregates (ultimate). ,
those who have settled on the boundary of the realm, those who have
settled on the boundary of being, those who have settled on the boundary
of the destination (rebirth), those who have settled on the boundary of
rebirth, those who have settled on the boundary of rebirth Those who
have settled, those who have settled on the border of being, those who
have settled on the border of samsara, those who have settled on the
border of samsara, those who have settled on the last being, those who
have settled in the last gathering ( body) above the established person,
the Arahant who holds the last body.
　　"This is his last being, this is his last gathering (body), the
cycle of life and
　　　death, without his rebirth. "
　　Having crossed the other shore": The other shore is called
immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of all actions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
greed, the cessation of nirvana, and the cessation of all actions. He is
the one who has reached the other shore; the one who has reached the
other shore, has reached the ultimate (goal); the one who has reached
the ultimate, has reached the end; The terminator; the one who has
reached the terminator, the one who has reached the rescue center; the
one who has reached the rescue center, the one who has reached the
refuge; He who has reached the fearless, has reached the undead; he has
reached the undead, he has reached the undead; he has reached the
undead, he has reached nirvana; he who has reached nirvana, he is the
one who has descended, the one who has practiced... ( Abbreviation) The
cycle of life and death, without his rebirth. ' for having crossed the
other shore.
　　"Those who are not desolate": Desolation of greed, desolation of
hatred, desolation of ignorance, desolation of anger, desolation of
resentment... (Abbreviated in the middle) All desolate desolation, for
him these desolations have been abandoned, cut off, Calmed down,
stopped, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called the
one who is not desolate. "Non-doubt": Doubt on suffering, doubt on the
genesis of suffering, doubt on the cessation of suffering, doubt on the
path leading to suffering, doubt on the front, doubt on the back, Doubt
in context, doubt in certainconditions and conditions, any doubt like
this, doubt, state of doubt, confusion, hesitation, doubt, crossroads
(doubt), doubt, not always grasping, Doubt, hesitation, incomprehension,
rigidity of the mind (stubborn state), confusion of mind, for him these
doubts have been abandoned, severed, calmed, stoked, unable to arise,
burned by the fire of wisdom, he Known as the unsuspecting. "Being and
having crossed the other shore as one who is not desolate and who is not
suspicious.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"Any Brahman who can be known as a Vedas, without owner, without
attachment to desire and existence, has
　　　indeed crossed over the storm, and has crossed over the other
shore as one who is not desolate. , those who do not doubt."
　　29. Anyone who is wise and who knows the Vedas is here, after all
kinds of defilements and renunciations,
　　　he is one who is free from craving, one who has no suffering, one
who has no desire, and I say he has passed through "Birth, Aging".
　　"Everyone who is wise, who knows the Vedas is here": "A 'wise' is [a
wise man,] one who has attained enlightenment, a wise man, a wise man, a
wise man. 'Any', what a man is like...or a person.'' Knowing the Vedas",
the Vedas are called wisdom, wisdom, wisdom root, wisdom power, Dharma
selection, enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana, right view on
the four paths. With those Vedas who have birth, age, and death have
arrived Those who have reached the end (goal); those who have reached
the end, those who have reached the end; those who have reached the end,
those who have reached the boundary (the end); those who have reached
the boundary, those who have reached the end; those who have reached the
end, those who have reached the ambulance; Those who have reached the
rescue center have arrived at the refuge; those who have reached the
refuge have reached the place of refuge; those who have reached the
place of refuge have arrived without fear; those who have reached
without terror have arrived without the dead; The dead have reached the
immortal; the immortal has reached nirvana; the one who has reached
nirvana. Either "the one who has reached the end of the Vedas" is the
one who knows the Vedas, or "the one who has reached the end of the
Vedas" is the one who knows the Vedas. Vedic person, or the known state
of the seven dharmas is the one who is versed in Vedic: having a body
view is known, doubt... (abbreviated in the middle) abstain from
taking... greed... hatred... delusion... slow to be known, all evils are
not good The Dharma is known: follow the defilement, the reoccurrence,
the fear, the bitter retribution, and the future life, old age and death.
　　[World Honored One: "Serbia!"] [Sn.3.6, 534 verse]
　　Select all the Vedas All the ascetic and brahmins who belong to this
place are
　　free from greed in all feelings, and after transcending all the
Vedas, he is the one who knows the Vedas.
　　"Human" is the sentient beings, the human beings, the student
Brahman, the person, the individual, the life, the one who is born. ,
sentient beings, to those born of Indra, those born of Manu. "Here"
belongs to this view... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world of this
person." For all the wise, those who know the Vedas are here.
　　"After the defilement of all kinds of beings": "'in all kinds of
beings', in all kinds of existences of karma, in the re-existence of
desires; in the karmic existence of form, in the re-existence of
formless existence; in the karmic existence of formless existence, in
the re-existence of the form-less existence; in the re-existence of the
re-existence, in the re-birth again and again, in the re-birth again and
again , in the birth of an individual again and again. "Dyeing", there
are seven kinds of tainting: greed, hatred, delusion, slowness, seeing,
defilement, and evil. The defilement of conduct. "After renunciation",
after giving up on the taint is after renunciation, or on the taint, on
the bondage, on the enlargement of the bondage, on the entangled, on the
attached, on the On what is fastened, on what is obstructed, on what is
bound, after being shaken (?) after being detached, such as a chariot,
or a sedan chair, or a carriage, or a wagon, or a chariot [person,
thing] ] After releasing (renunciation) they place, destroy. Likewise,
after giving up on tainting is after renunciation, or on tainting, on
binding, on expanding bound, on entangled, on being On the attached, on
the fixed, on the obstructed, on the binding, after being shaken and
renounced.” For the renunciation of all kinds of defilements.
　　"He is one who is free from craving, one who has no suffering, and
one who has no desire. I say that he has passed through 'birth and
aging'": "craving" is the craving of form... (the middle abbreviated)
craving of the Dharma. Whoever for him craving has been abandoned, cut
off, calmed down, quenched, unable to arise, burned by the fire of
wisdom, he is called a craving person, a craving-free person, a
craving-abandoning person. , those who renounce craving, those who
liberate craving, those who abandon craving, those who renounce craving,
those who abandon greed, those who abandon greed The one who is not
thirsty, the one who has cooled, the one who has become cool, the one
who feels happiness, who lives with himself as the Brahman who has been
born, he is the one who is free from thirst. "Those without suffering",
greed is suffering; hatred is suffering; delusion is suffering; anger is
suffering; resentment is suffering... The one who gives up, is cut off,
is calmed down, is stopped, cannot arise, is burned by the fire of
wisdom, he is called the one without suffering. "Those who have no
desire", desire is called craving, which is greed, greed... (abbreviated
in the middle) greed, the root of greed is unwholesome. Whoever for him
this desire and craving has been abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called a
desireless one. "Born", all sentient beings... (abbreviated in the
middle) gain all places. "Aging", in all living beings... (abbreviated
in the middle) the degeneration of the roots, this is called old age.
"He is craving, afflicted, and wishless, and I say he passes through
'birth, aging'": "Whoever is craving, afflicted, and wishless, 'born,
senile' , Death does he pass, transcend, pass, pass, overcome.' I said,
I explained, I taught, I informed, I established, I uncovered, I parsed,
I clarified, I explained." For him is thirst The one who loves, who has
no distress, who has no desire, I say he passes through "birth, aging."
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"Anyone who is wise, who knows the Veda, is here, after being
defiled by all kinds of things,
　　　he is one who is free from craving, one who has no suffering, one
who has no desire, and I say that he has passed through the Birth, old
age'."
　　At the end of the verse... (abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am my disciple.
　　"


Notes:
　1. The place where suffering arises: it is caused by various
sufferings due to attachment.
　2. Ten kinds of attachments: craving, view, pollution, karma, evil
deeds, food, aversion, the four clinging elements (earth, water, fire,
and wind), the six inner bases, the six types of consciousness, and the
attachments for all suffering with the righteousness of the heart .
　3. Dependent writer = ignorant person = stupid person who suffers
again and again.
　4. Removing joy in any place, abandoning all attachments to one's
consciousness will not remain in existence (= Ni.30
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni30.htm>consciousness extinction) ⇒
Able to pass through the love in the world.
　10/17/2020 15:50
Commentary:
　　 "The Four Realms of Grasping" (catasso upādinnadhātuyo), "The Light
of Dharma" explains it as "the four realms" (catasso dhātuyova). Press:
These are the four elements of "earth, water, fire, and wind".
