Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
5. Explanation of the question asked by the Brahmins of Dudage's student
　　30. [Venourable Dudage like this:] World Honored I ask you, please
tell me this, great immortal! I look forward to your words, and
　　　after hearing your words, I should study for my Nirvana.
　　"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask', there
are three kinds of inquiries: the inquiry of the explanation of the
unseen, the inquiry of the convergence of the seen, and the inquiry of
the severance of doubts... (Abbreviated in the middle). There are three
kinds of questions... (abbreviated in the middle) the question of
Nirvana. "I ask you": "I ask you, I beg you, I ask you, you make me
clear, please tell me." Ask you for me. "World Honored One." ', which is
a synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anri (pseudonym)
who testified, namely "World Honored One". "Please tell me this", please
say, please explain, please teach, please inform, please You establish,
please uncover, please analyze, please clarify, please explain.” I ask
you for the Blessed One, please tell me this.
　　"[Like this Venerable Dudage]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) 'Sir', this is a love
language, a respectful language, a respectful language, and a submissive
language. '. 'Dudag', the name, title, title, Anli, common name, name,
name, title, words, phrases, title of that Brahman." It is [Venered like
this Dudage].
　　"Daxian! I look forward to your words": "Your words, language,
teachings, admonitions, admonitions I look forward to, I expect, I want,
I use, I hope, I desire, I pray. "Daxian" , Why is the World Honored a
great immortal? "The seeker, the seeker, the seeker of the great
precepts" is the great immortal... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Where is
the bull king among men?" Great immortal." Great immortal! I look
forward to your words.
　　"After hearing your words": "After hearing your words, language,
teaching, admonitions, admonitions, after hearing, after hearing, after
grasping, after understanding, after discerning." After hearing your words.
　　"You should study for your own nirvana": "There are three kinds of
studies for 'study': the study of increasing precepts, the study of
increasing mind, and the study of increasing wisdom... (abbreviated in
the middle) This is the study of increasing wisdom. "For one's own
nirvana" For the sake of Nirvana of greed, Nirvana of hatred, Nirvana of
ignorance, Nirvana of anger, Nirvana of resentment... (Abbreviated in
the middle) All unwholesome and artificial things are calm, quiet,
subdued, extinguished, broken off, and cessation, you should learn to
increase the precepts , we should also learn to increase the mind, and
we should also learn to increase the wisdom. These three things should
be learned when facing (noticing); when you know, you should learn; when
you see, you should learn; when you examine, you should learn; be
careful You should learn when you are established (determination); you
should learn when you overcome your solution with faith; you should
learn when you work hard; you should learn when mindfulness arises; you
should learn when your mind is centered (concentrated); you should learn
when you understand with wisdom; when Witness what ought to be practised
should be learned; study when omniscient ought to be omniscient; study
when renunciation ought to be renounced; practise what ought to be
practised ought to learn; as proof ought to be testified It should be
studied [ Ps.1 <https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>, 41.], it should
be practiced, it should be practiced well, and after it is upheld, it
should be turned.” It should be studied for one’s own Nirvana.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venager Dudag like this:] Lord, I ask you, please tell me this,
great immortal! I look forward to your words, and
　　　after hearing your words, I should study for my own nirvana. 31.
[World-
　　Honored One: "Dudage!"] If that's the case, please be zealous. Those
who are wise and conscientious
　　　here, after hearing the words from here, should study for their
own nirvana.
　　"If that's the case, please be zealous": "Please be zealous; please
be brave; please be zealous; please be determined; please be determined;
please be energetic, please be willing to please you to make it happen;
please be Make it produce; please make it manifest; please make it fully
produced; please make it arise; please make it arise." Please be zealous
in that case.
　　"Dudage", "The World-Honored One addressed that Brahmin by name.
'World-Honored One', this is a synonym for respect... (Middle
abbreviated) testifying to Anli (pseudonym), the World-Honored One." For
[World-Honored One: "Dudage! "]
　　"Here the wise, the mindful": ""Here," of this view; of this liking;
of this liking; in this clinging; in this Dhamma; in this discipline; in
this In the law; in this teaching; in this holy life; in the teachings
of this master; in this individual; in this world of people. "Wise"
means the wise, the wise wise, wise, enlightened, wise, wise, wise.
'Mindful', 'Mindful in four ways: when one is practising mindfulness of
the body along with the body The one who recites... (abbreviated in the
middle) he is called the one who is mindful."" It is the one who is wise
and mindful right here.
　　"After hearing the words from here": "From here my words, the way of
speaking, the teachings, the admonitions, the admonitions, after
hearing, after hearing, after grasping, after understanding, after
discerning." After hearing words and words from here.
　　"You should study for your own nirvana": "There are three kinds of
studies for 'study': the study of increasing precepts, the study of
increasing mind, and the study of increasing wisdom... (abbreviated in
the middle) This is the study of increasing wisdom. "For one's own
nirvana" For the sake of Nirvana of greed, Nirvana of hatred, Nirvana of
ignorance, Nirvana of anger, Nirvana of resentment... (Abbreviated in
the middle) All unwholesome and artificial things are calm, quiet,
subdued, extinguished, broken off, and cessation, you should learn to
increase the precepts , you should also learn to increase the mind, and
you should also learn to increase the wisdom. These three things should
be learned when facing (notice); when you know, you should learn...
(Abbreviated in the middle) You should learn when you should testify It
should be practiced, it should be practiced well, and after receiving
and upholding, it should be turned up." It should be studied for one's
own Nirvana.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Dodage!'] If that's the case, please be
zealous. Those who are wise and conscientious
　　　here, after hearing the words from here, should study for their
own nirvana."
　　32 .I see in the world of heaven and man, the Brahmanic mover who
has nothing,
　　　I salute you, you are all eyes, Shakyamuni! Please free me from
doubts.
　　"I see in the world of heaven and man": "Heaven", there are three
kinds of heaven: the worldly heaven, the rebirth heaven, and the pure
heaven. What is a secular day? Kings and princes and queens are called
temporal heavens, and these are called temporal heavens. What is the
afterlife? The Four Great Kings Heaven, the Thirty-Three Heavens, Yemo
Heaven, Tusita Heaven, Hua Le Heaven, He Hua Zi Zai Heaven, Brahma All
Heavens, and all the heavens above that are called Rebirth Heavens, and
these are called Rebirth Heavens. What is a clean day? [The Tathagata,]
The disciples of the Tathagata have exhausted all the taints. The
Arahants and all the pratyekabuddhas are called the Pure Heaven, and
these are called the Pure Heaven. The World-Honored One is the god of
the world, the god of rebirth, the god of pure gods, the god of
superiority, the god of gods, the lion of lions, the dragon of dragons,
the master of masters, the Muni of Munis, and the king of kings. "I see
in heaven, in the world of men": "In the world of men I see heaven; I
see superior heaven; I see heaven in heaven, I see, I watch, I
contemplate, I observe." See for me In the world of heaven and man.
　　"A Brahminist who has nothing": "'Nothing', greed has nothing,
hatred has nothing, ignorance has nothing, arrogance has nothing, seeing
has nothing, pollution has nothing, evil deeds have nothing, any of
those who have nothing to the Buddha, the World Honored One It has been
abandoned, the root has been cut off, [such as] the palm tree whose root
has been cut off, has become non-existent, and is not born in the
future. Therefore, the Buddha is called no owner. "Brahman", the Blessed
One is seven The excluded state of the Dharma is Brahman: the existence
of body view is eliminated, the doubt is eliminated, the abstinence is
eliminated, the greed is eliminated, the hatred is eliminated, the
delusion is eliminated, the arrogance is eliminated, the evil and
unwholesome dharmas are eliminated: the obedience is polluted, There are
others, those who have fear, those who will suffer retribution, and
those who will be born, old and dead in the future.
　　[World Honored One: "Serbia!"] [Sn.3.6, 524 verses]
　　"After eliminating all evil, the defiled good will dwell in
concentration. In a state of standing,
　　　he transcends samsara and becomes a perfect one, and one who does
not depend on such things can be called a Brahman.
　　" Guardian, Survivor, Survivor." For the Brahmanic mover who has
nothing.
　　"I pay homage to you, you are all eyes": "'you,' he said, Blessed
One. 'I pay homage', I pay homage with my body, or I pay homage with my
words, or I pay homage with my heart, or I pay homage Respect as it
means, or I reverence, reverence, reverence, reverence, reverence [,
reverence] in accordance with the Dharma. "All Eyes," All Eyes are
called the State Knowledge of All Knowing. The Blessed One possesses,
fully possesses, Achieving, fully reaching, possessing, fully
possessing, possessing state knowledge of all knowledge.
　　"For him there is nothing here (in this world) that is unseen, and
there is nothing that is not known and cannot be known, and
　　　he realizes that Everything that exists should be led to
inference, the Tathagata for that is the one who is all the eyes.” [ Ps
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>
　　.
　　"Sakyamuni! Please liberate me from doubts": "Sakyamuni", "Sakyamuni
Buddha is a monk from the house of Sakyamuni." It is Sakyamuni. Or, "the
rich, the rich, the rich." Also Shakyamuni. For him there are these
wealth, namely: wealth of faith, wealth of precepts, wealth of shame,
wealth of shame, wealth of hearing, wealth of charity, wealth of wisdom,
wealth of mindfulness, wealth of righteous diligence, wealth of
spiritual sufficiency, wealth of roots, wealth of strength, wealth of
enlightenment The wealth, the wealth of the path, the wealth of fruit,
the wealth of Nirvana, these various treasures are the rich, the rich,
and the rich. Or, "The possible, the able, the outflow, the sufficiency,
hero, brave, heroic, not cowardly, not frightened, not panicked, not
fleeing, who has given up fear and fear, who has left the body and
erected it. "Also for Shakyamuni. Doubt is called Doubt: Doubt in
Suffering, Doubt in the Origin of Suffering, Doubt in the Cessation of
Suffering, Doubt in the Path leading to Suffering, Doubt in the Past,
Doubt in the Past, Doubt in context, doubt in certain conditions and
conditions, any doubt like this, doubt, state of doubt, confusion,
hesitation, doubt, crossroads (doubt), doubt, not always grasping,
Suspicion, hesitation, incomprehension, rigidity of the mind (stubborn
state), confusion of mind. "Sakyamuni! Please set me free from doubts":
"Please set me free; please set me free; please set me free; please set
me free; please pull me out; please pull me out completely; please set
me free. Get me out of the state of doubt and arrow." For Shakyamuni!
Please free me from doubts.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"I see in the world of heaven and man, there are no Brahmin movers.
　　　I pay homage to you. You are the one with all eyes, Shakya! Please
free me from doubts."
　　33. For liberation I shall not be able: Dodag! Anyone who doubts in
the world,
　　　when you know the best Dharma, so you will ride through this storm.
　　"For liberation I will not be able": "You, I will not be able to
release, liberate, release, release, pull out, pull out fully, ascend,
fully ascend Doubtful arrow stabbing state." This is what I will not be
able to do for liberation . Or, "On those who have no faith, on those
who have no desire, on those who are slack, on those with low vigor, on
those who do not practice I don't try; I don't do my best; I don't try;
I don't try; I don't do Courage; I do not zeal; I do not fortitude; I do
not resolute; I do not dynamism, I do not make it; I do not produce [; I
do not manifest; I do not fully produce]; I do not make It arises; I do
not cause it to give rise to the teachings of the Dhamma." This is also
the case for liberation I will not be able to. Or, "You don't have any
other liberators, if they can liberate, by their own power (fortitude),
by their own strength, by their own vigour, by their own effort
(courage), by their own power of men, by their own power. With the
strength of their own people, with the vitality of their own people,
with their own people's efforts, with their own correct way, following
the right way, not the opposite way, following the righteous way, and
the law following the law. Liberation." This is also for liberation I
will not be able to.
　　This was said by the Blessed One: "Junda! 'I am one who is mired in
the quagmire and will pull out others who are mired in the quagmire.'
This is impossible. Chundra! It will make others conditioned, trained,
and nirvana.' This is impossible. [ MN.8
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=8>]" So also for
liberation I will not be able.
　　This is said by the Blessed One: [Dhp.12, 165 verse]
　　"He who has done evil, becomes defiled, and
　　　he who does not do evil, becomes pure. The 　　pure
　　　and the impure are separate, and neither can make the other pure."
Also for liberation I will not be able to.
　　This was said by the Blessed One: "Similarly, Brahmins! Nirvana
abides, the path leading to Nibbana abides, my persuasion abides, but
when my disciples are so taught, so taught by me, there are some who
reach the ultimate end. Nirvana, something does not reach, Brahman! What
can I do here? Brahman! The Tathagata is the one who points the way. [
MN.107 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=107>] The Buddha
only tells (points) the path, and when they practice it themselves they
can be liberated." For liberation I will not be able.
　　"Dodage! Anyone who doubts in the world": "Those who doubt, those
who doubt, who are confused, who have doubts, who are hesitant. 'Any
(person)', any Kshatriya, or Brahmin, or Vaisha, or Sudras, or lay
people, or monks, or gods, or people. "In the world", in the world of
the suffering world... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world." For
Dudage! any doubters in the world.
　　"When the supreme Dharma is known": "The supreme Dharma is called
immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of all actions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
craving, the cessation of nirvana." Victory (of)', the first, the most
victorious, the most excellent, the first, the most superior, the most
top-level Dharma, when it is understood, differentiated, clearly
understood, and penetrated." .
　　"In this way you will overcome this storm": "This storm of desire,
of some, of seeing, of ignorance, you can cross, transcend, pass, pass,
and overcome." For this you will ride out this storm.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said:
　　"For liberation I will not be able to: Dodag! Anyone who doubts in
the world,
　　　when he knows the best Dharma, then you will ride through this
storm."
　　34. Brahmins! Compassionate one, please teach me that if I can
understand and stay away from the Dharma,
　　　I will be like a person who is free from hatred in the void, and I
can walk silently and non-stop right here.
　　"Brahmin! Those who have compassion, please teach me": "'Brahmin!
Please teach me; Brahmin! Please help; Brahmin! Please have mercy.'
Brahmin! Please teach me. "Those with compassion", The one who has
compassion, the one who sympathizes, the one who protects, the one who
supports, and the one who has pity." For Brahmins! Compassionate ones
please teach me.
　　"The Dharma that I can understand": "The Dhamma is called
immortality, nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
craving, the cessation of nirvana. I can know, I can understand, I can
distinguish, I can know with certainty, I can penetrate, I can realize,
I can touch, I can testify.” For what I can understand, stay away from
the Dharma.
　　"I am like the free of hatred in the void": "I am like the void, not
clinging to, not being caught, not being bound, not being all bound,
such is the one who is not attached, who is not captured, who is not
bound. Who is not bound by all." Such is the void of hatred. "If the
void is not dyed [color] with carmine, or turmeric, or indigo, or
crimson, then such is the one who is not dyed, who is not angry, who is
not foolish, and who is not polluted." victim. "If the void does not get
angry, does not hate, does not resist, and is not countered, such is the
one who is not angry, who is not angry, who does not resist, who is not
countered, and who does not counterattack." By.
　　"Just here you can walk silently and non-stop": "'Just here in
silence', ' Just here when you are here '; just when there is; when you
sit down here; when you sit down in this seat; when you sit down in this
crowd. ' That's right here in silence. Or, "Just here is stillness,
stillness, calming, cooling, resting. ' So it is here in silence.
"Non-dependence", there are two kinds of dependence: the dependence of
craving and the dependence of view... (Abbreviated in the middle) This
is the dependence of craving... (Omitted in the middle) This is the
dependence of view... The dependence of craving After the attachment has
been abandoned and the attachment of seeing has been cut off, it becomes
the non-dependence of the eyes, the non-dependence of the ear, the
non-dependence of the nose, the non-dependence of the tongue, the
non-dependence of the body, the non-dependence of the mind. Those who do
not rely on it, all forms...all sounds...all smells...all tastes...all
touches...all dharmas...homes...groups...
Pleasure...clothing...food...housing...patients need things, medical
necessities...desire realm...form realm...formless realm...desire to
be...form to have...formless to...thinking to have...no thinking There
is...not thinking, not thinking...one aggregate...four aggregates...five
aggregates...the past...the future...the present...the things that are
seen, heard, felt, and can be known Those who are not dependent, who are
not attached, who do not fall into, who do not cling to, who do not turn
their minds toward (win solutions). Released, departed, liberated, freed
from bondage, he [dwells] with a mind free from limitations. To be able
to move means to be able to move, to live, to move, to turn around, to
protect, to survive, to survive. ' In order to be able to walk silently
and non-stop right here.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"Brahmin, please teach me, those who are compassionate, that I can
understand and stay away from the Dhamma, and I
　　　am like a person who is free from hatred in the void, and I can
walk here in silence and without clinging to anything.
　　35. [World-Honored One: " Dodage!"] I will tell you about the
stillness, in the present life and not in rumors,
　　　whoever knows the mind behind it can pass through the love in the
world.
　　"I will tell you about the silence": "The silence of greed, the
silence of hatred, the silence of ignorance, the silence of anger, the
silence of resentment... (abbreviated in the middle) the one who hides
evil... the one who is domineering... the one who is jealous... the one
who is stingy... Deceitful... cunning... stubborn... passionate...
slow... extremely slow... sloppy... lethargic... all polluting... all
evil... all annoying ...all that is hot...all that is hot...all that is
uncontrived stillness, stillness, calming, cooling, cessation I will
tell, I will announce, I will explain, I will teach, I will inform, I
will Build, I'll uncover, I'll parse, I'll elucidate, I'll explain."
Silence will be told for me and for you.
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Dudag!']": "'Dudag', the Blessed One addressed
the Brahmin by his first name. 'World-Honored One', this is a synonym
for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym) who
testified, That is, the World Honored One." For [World Honored One:
"Tudagar!"]
　　"In the present life, not the hearsay": "'In the present life', 'in
the Dharma seen (in the life); in the Dharma known On the dharma that is
measured; on the dharma that is made clear: "all actions are
impermanent"... (abbreviated in the middle) "everything that arises is
the dharma of cessation" is on the dharma that is seen (at the time of
birth) ; on the Dhamma known; in the Dhamma measured; in the Dhamma made
clear, thus [I shall speak] of the present. Or, I will tell you about
the suffering of being seen; I will tell you about the set of being
seen; I will tell you about the way of being seen; I will tell you about
the way of being seen; The annihilation above the annihilation seen,
this is also what [I will tell] should be born. Or, [to be born]
"immediately visible, immediate, please see, able to guide, and should
be experienced by the wise." This is also [I will tell] at present. '
for life. "Non-rumor", not from hearsay, not from rumors, not from
tradition, not from the teachings of scriptures, not from logical
deduction, not reasoning, not because of theoretical reflection, not
because of opinions accepted after meditation, but by myself. The Dharma
of realization, self-realization, and I'll talk about that. ' is in life
and not in hearsay.
　　"Those who practice mind after knowing": "Those who know, measure,
judge, discriminate, and clarify: 'All actions are impermanent' after
knowing, measuring, judging, discriminating, After clarifying; "All
actions are suffering"... (Middle abbreviation) "All dharmas are
non-self"... (Middle abbreviation) "Any collection of dharmas is a
cessation of dharmas" After knowing, evaluating, judging, and
distinguishing , After clarifying. "Thinking", there are four ways to be
mindful: When practicing mindfulness of the body along with the body, it
is mindful... (Abbreviated in the middle) He is called mindful. ', when
walking, staying, moving, turning, guarding, making existence, making
existence." For those who know the hindsight with mindfulness.
　　"Love that can pass through the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Love", what is the meaning of
love? "...(Middle abbreviation) Enlarged attachment" is love. "In the
world", in the world of suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) in the
world. "Can pass through the love in the world": "The love in the world,
or the love in the world [ Ni.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>], he can pass, transcend, pass,
pass, overcome. "To be able to pass through the love in the world.
　　Because of that, the World Honored One said,
　　"[World Honored One: 'Tokada!'] I will speak for you about the
stillness, in the present, not in hearsay, and those
　　　who know the mind behind it can pass through the love of the world."
　　36. I am very happy with that, Daxian! The supreme silence,
　　　those who know the mind behind them, can pass through the love in
the world.
　　"I rejoice over that": "'that', your words, your way of speaking,
your teachings, your admonitions, your admonitions. I rejoice, I
rejoice, I rejoice, I rejoice, I want, I use, I beg ], I hope, I long
for, I pray." Rejoice in that for me.
　　"Great Immortal! The Supreme Being Quiet": "'Great Immortal', why is
the World-Honored One a Great Immortal? "The seeker, seeker, and seeker
of the Great Precepts" is the Great Immortal; Where is it?" It is the
great immortal. "The supreme tranquility", the tranquility is called
immortality, nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions, the
cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of
greed, the cessation of nirvana. ')', the first, the most victorious,
the supreme, the top, the top, the top." Great immortal! The most silent.
　　"Those who practice mind after knowing": "After knowing...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "All actions are impermanent" After knowing,
evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying; "All actions are
suffering" "All dharmas are non-self"... (abbreviated in the middle)
"Any collection of dharmas is a cessation of dharmas" after knowing,
evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and clarifying. There are four ways
of being mindful: when you practice mindfulness of the body along with
the body, you are mindful... (Abbreviated in the middle) He is called a
mindful one. The "walker", when walking... (Abbreviated in the middle)
makes life possible time." For those who know the mind behind it.
　　"Love that can pass through the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. "Love", what is the meaning of love? "...(Middle
abbreviation) Enlarged attachment" is love. "In the world", in the world
of suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world. "Can pass
through the love in the world": "The love in the world, or the love in
the world, he can pass through thoughtfully, can transcend...
(abbreviated) can overcome." In order to pass through the world of love.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"I am very happy with that, great immortal! The supreme silence,
　　　whoever knows the mind of hindsight, can pass through the love in
the world
　　. " Whatever you know, in the upper, lower, and middle four
directions, after
　　　knowing that this is "tainted" in the world, you should not crave
in the various existences.
　　"Anything you know well": "Anything you know, you understand [, you
know], you know for sure, you understand." For whatever you know.
"'Dudage', the World Honored One addressed the Brahmin by name. 'World
Honored One', this is a synonym for respect... (Abbreviated in the
middle) testifying to Anli (pseudonym), that is, the World Honored One."
For [World Honored One: "Dudage! ”].
　　"In the upper, lower, and middle squares": "'up' is the future,
'down' is the past, the "middle square" is the present; "up" is the
world of heaven, "down" is the world of hell, and the "middle square" It
is the world of human beings. Or, "up" is good law, "down" is
unwholesome law, "middle square" is non-remarkable law; "up" is formless
realm, "down" is desire realm, and "middle four directions" is form
realm "Up" is a pleasant feeling, "down" is a painful feeling, "middle
square" is neither painful nor pleasant; "up" is above the soles of the
feet, "down" is below the hair, and "middle square" is in the middle. ”
for the top, bottom, and middle quads.
　　"After knowing that this is the 'dye' in the world": "'This is
dyeing, this is adhesion, this is bondage, this is obstacle.' After
knowing, understanding, evaluating, judging, separating, getting After
clearing." In order to know that this is "dyed" in the world.
　　"Don't crave in all kinds of existence": "'Desire', craving for
form, craving for sound... (Abbreviated in the middle) craving for
Dharma. 'In all kinds of existence', in all kinds of existence of kamma
Among them, in the re-existence of desire to be; in the karma of desire
to be, in the re-existence of form; in the karma of form, in the
re-existence of formless; in the karma of formless, In again and again,
in again and again, in again and again, in repeated rebirths, in
rebirths, in rebirths of individuals. Don't create craving, don't
generate craving, give it up, drive away, end it, bring it to
non-existence." For you do not create craving in all kinds of existence.
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Dodage!'] Whatever you know, above, below, and
in the middle,
　　　knows that this is the 'dye' in the world, and you don't want to
be in the midst of all kinds of things. thirst."
　　At the end of the verse... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am my disciple.
　　"


Notes:
　1. Rely on one's own efforts (to be zealous = bravery, zeal,
fortitude, determination, vigor, desire) to liberate rather than the
Blessed One (the Blessed One is the one who guides the way and cannot
lead to liberation).
　2. Don't crave for all kinds of things after knowing that you are dyed
⇒ You can get through the love in the world.
　10/17/2020 16:10
Commentary:
　　 "Those who flow out of various kinds, those who are sufficiency"
(visavī alamatto), "The Light of the Dharma" explains "the ones who flow
out of all kinds of things" as "the ones who are alive in the continuum
and transcendence" (parasantāne vīriyuppādako), with "the able mind (the
skilled mind)" ; strong mind)” (samatthacitto) explains the “sufficient
one.”
　　 "Not to be stuck, not to be caught, not to be bound" (na pajjati na
gaṇhati na bajjhati), the original pajjati means "walking", but SN.16.3
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=16.3>as na sajjati na
gayhati na bajjhati should be more appropriate, and this is for now
translate.
　　 "It is here" (idheva santo), this passage interprets "silence"
(santo) as another meaning of the word, the present participle of the
verb "to be" (atthi), the next sentence "being" (samāno) The same is true.
