Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
7. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Nanda
　　46. [Venerable Nanda like this:] There are Munis in the world, why
do people say this?
　　　Do they say that Muni is the wise man? Or the one who survives?
　　"There are various Munis in the world": "'Existence' means to exist,
be known, to have, to be discovered. 'In the world', in the world of the
world of suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world. 'Munis',
the name It's called Muni's evil order heresy, Ni Qiantuo, hair-breaker,
and ascetic." There are various Munis in the world.
　　"[Like this Venerable Nanda]": "'Like this', the continuation of the
sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable", [this is] the love
language... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Nanda", the Brahmin's The
name... (abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is [Venor Nanda like
this].
　　"Why do people say this": "The 'people' are Kshatriyas, Brahmins,
Vaishas, ​​Sudras, lay people, monks, gods, people. '(They) say', they
talk, talk, explain, Say. "Why is this?" The questioning of doubt, the
questioning of perplexity, the questioning of doubt, the questioning of
more than one, such are rhetorical questions, interrogative irony, why
exactly, why exactly?" Why do people say this?
　　"Whether they say that Muni is a man of wisdom": "They say, talk,
talk, explain, say that Muni has, fully possesses, attains, fully
attains, possesses, fully possesses, possesses the eighth level of
supreme wisdom, or the five supernatural powers Wisdom." Are they saying
that Muni is a man of wisdom?
　　"It's still alive and well": "It's still they say, talk, talk,
explain, say that Muni has, fully has, reached, fully reached, fully,
fully fully, able to engage in all kinds, all kinds, the most difficult
ones, evils Those who live in filth." For those who are still alive?
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venerable Nanda like this:] There are munis in the world, why do
people say this?
　　　Do they say that Muni is the wise man? Or the one who survives? 47.
　　Not by seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom, Nanda! The skilled
people here say Munis.
　　　Those who live (walk) without suffering and without desire after
leaving the army, I call them "Munis".
　　"Not by seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom": "Not by seeing, not
by seeing pure. Not by hearing, not by hearing. 'Not by wisdom', not by
the eighth The ultimate wisdom does not rely on the five supernatural
powers, nor does it rely on evil wisdom." It is not based on seeing, not
by hearing, not by wisdom.
　　"Nanda! Here the skillful ones say Muni": "'Skillful ones', those
who are skillful in the accumulation, skillful in the world, skillful in
locating, skillful in dependent arising, skillful in mindfulness,
skillful in diligence Skilled ones, skillful ones of spiritual feet,
skillful ones of roots, skillful ones of power, skillful ones of
enlightenment factor, skillful ones of path, skillful ones of fruition,
skillful ones of nirvana, they don't talk, don't talk, don't talk , do
not explain, do not say that Muni has, fully has, reached, fully
reached, fully, fully completed, with pure seeing, or pure hearing, or
eight-level supreme wisdom, or five supernatural wisdom, or evil wisdom,
or seeing, Or heard." Nanda! Here the skilled people say Muni.
　　"Anyone who lives (walks) without suffering and without desire after
leaving the army, I call them 'Munis'": the army is called a demon army.
Acting as a demon army; greed as a demon army; hatred as a demon army;
ignorance as a demon army; anger... (middle abbreviated) resentment...
hide... ...passion...slow...extremely slow...indulgent...lethargy...all
pollution...all evil deeds...all afflictions...all scorching heat...all
vexation...all bad things are created as a demon army. 　　　This is
said by the Blessed One: [ Sn.3.2 , 438-441 verses]
　　"Desire is your first legion, unhappiness is called second,
　　　hunger and thirst your third, craving the fourth.
Sleep is your fifth, fear is said to be sixth,
　　　Doubt is your seventh, hiding evil and stubbornness is your eighth.
　　　Gain a reputation with respect, and those who gain fame by mistake,
　　　praise themselves and despise others.
　　　demon! This is your legion, the evil (black) attacker,
　　　whoever has no courage will not defeat him, but will gain comfort
after victory. "
　　When all demonic armies and all hostile contaminations are
conquered, defeated, destroyed, disintegrated, and turned away by the
Four Noble Paths, because then they are called after the Legion. "No
suffering", greed is suffering; hatred is suffering; delusion is
suffering; anger is suffering; resentment is suffering... (Omitted in
the middle) All unwholesome deeds are suffering. Those who are
abandoned, cut off, calmed down, stopped, unable to arise, burned by the
fire of wisdom, they are called those without suffering. "Desireless":
Desire is called craving, which is greed, greed (complete greed)...
(Abbreviated in the middle) ignorance, greed and unwholesome roots.
Whoever for them this desire and craving is abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, quenched, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, they are
called wishless ones, arahants, those whose defilements have been
exhausted. "Those who live (walk) without suffering and without desire
after leaving the army, I call them 'Munis'": "Those who live (walk),
live, live, and have no desires after leaving the army without suffering
and without desire Acting, turning, guarding, perpetuating, and
surviving, I speak, I explain, I teach, I inform, I establish, I
uncover, I decipher, I clarify, I explain. They are the Munis in the
world. "For those who have no troubles and no desires after leaving the
army, I call them "Munis".
　　Because of that, the World-Honored One said,
　　"Not by seeing, not by hearing, not by wisdom, Nanda! The skilled
people here say Muni, those who live
　　　without suffering and without desire after leaving the army, I
Said they were 'Munis'."
　　48. [Venerable Nanda like this:] Any of these ascetics, brahmins,
they say that by seeing and hearing there is purity,
　　　It is also said that there is purity in precepts and prohibitions,
and that there is purity in all forms,
　　　World Honored One! Are those who practice self-control there,
through birth and aging?
　　　Dear Sir! Lord, I ask you, please tell me this.
　　"Any of these ascetics, brahmins": "'Anything,' all completely,
completely in every way, nothing leftover, whole, this is the universal
word, 'Anything.' Anyone who enters the procession from outside here,
who enters the procession. 'Brahmin,' whoever calls someone a friend."
For any of these ascetics, brahmins.
　　"[Like this Venerable Nanda]": "'Like this', the continuation of the
sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable", [this is] the love
language... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Nanda", the Brahmin's The
name... (abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is [Venor Nanda like
this].
　　"They say that what they see and hear is pure": "They say, talk,
talk, explain, speak that seeing is pure, pure, universally pure; freed,
liberated, universally freed; they also say, talk, talk, Explain, speak,
and hear, there is pure, pure, and universally pure; detachment,
liberation, and universally detachment; Get rid of everything.” For
them, they say that there is purity in what is seen and heard.
　　"It is also said that with precept and restraint there is purity":
"They say, talk, talk, explain, say that with precept there is purity,
purity, universal purity; liberation, liberation, universal liberation;
they also say, talk, talk, explain , speaking to restraint is pure,
pure, universally pure; free, liberated, universally freed; "It is also
said that with precepts and prohibitions there is purity.
　　"It is said that all forms are pure": "They say, talk about, talk
about, explain, and talk about the various types of auspicious signs
that are pure, pure, universally pure; detachment, liberation,
universally detached." In order to say that various forms are pure .
　　"World Honored One! Are those who practice self-control there":
"'No', 'question of doubt, query of perplexity, query of doubt, query of
more than one, such are rhetorical words, interrogative rhetoric, why
exactly, why at all "Yes or not. "Those" are those who have bad views.
"World Honored One." "Walkers", "there", in their own views, their own
likes, their own preferences, their own opinions. "Self-control",
prudent, prudent, guarding, protecting, guarding, protecting 'Walkers',
walkers [, walkers], dwellers, doers, turners, guardians, survivers,
survivers." For the World Honored One! Whether those do-it-yourselfers
there.
　　"Through birth and old age, dear sir": "Birth, old age, death they
pass, go beyond, pass, pass, overcome. 'Dear sir', which is synonymous
with love, honor, respect, obedience For dear sir." To get through birth
and aging, dear sir!
　　"World Honored One I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask you', 'I
ask you; I beg you; I ask you [; You make me clear]; please tell me.'
Ask for me. You. "World Honored One"... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli
(pseudonym) who testified, namely "World Honored One". "Please tell me
this", please say, please explain, please teach, please inform, please
establish, Please open it up, please analyze it, please clarify, please
explain." I ask you for the World Honored One, please tell me this.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venerable Nanda like this:] Any of these ascetics and Brahmins,
they say that there is purity in what they see and hear, and they say
that there is purity
　　　in precepts and restraints, and they say that there is purity in
all forms and forms. ,
　　　Blessed One! Are those who practice there self-control, through
birth and aging?
　　　Dear Sir! I ask you, Blessed One, please tell me this.”
　　49. [World-Honored One: "Nanda!"] All these ascetics and brahmins,
they say that there is purity in what they see and hear,
　　　they also say that there is purity in virtue of precepts and
restraints, and they say that there is purity in all forms,
　　　even those who practice self-control there, I say they have not
lived through birth and aging.
　　"Any of these ascetics, brahmins": "'Anything,' all completely,
completely in every way, nothing leftover, whole, this is the universal
word, 'Anything.' Anyone who enters the procession from outside here,
who enters the procession. 'Brahmin,' whoever calls someone a friend."
For any of these ascetics, brahmins.
　　"[World Honored One: 'Nanda!']: "'Nanda', the World Honored One
addressed that Brahmin by name. 'World Honored One', this is a synonym
for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym) who
testified, that is, "World Honored One" ’.” is [World Honored One:
“Nanda!”].
　　"They say that what they see and hear is pure": "They say, talk,
talk, explain, and talk that seeing is pure, pure, all-purity; freed,
liberated, freed from everywhere... (Abbreviated in the middle) They
also say, talk about Speaking, explaining, speaking, seeing and hearing
are pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated, universally freed."
For them they said that by seeing and hearing there is purity.
　　"It is also said that with precepts and restraint there is purity":
"They say, talk, talk, explain, say that with precepts there is purity,
purity, and universal purity; emancipation, liberation, and universal
emancipation... (Abbreviated in the middle) They also say, talk about,
Talking, explaining, speaking, with precepts and restraints, there is
purity, purity, and pervasive purity; emancipation, liberation, and
pervasiveness.” It is also said that precepts and restraints are pure.
　　"It is said that all forms are pure": "They say, talk about, talk
about, explain, and talk about the various types of auspicious signs
that are pure, pure, universally pure; detachment, liberation,
universally detached." In order to say that various forms are pure .
　　"Even those who practice self-control there": "'Even', the
continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection
of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of words; this is
the order of sentences, 'even'. 'Those' For those who see evil. "There",
in their own views, their own likes, their own preferences, their own
opinions. "Self-control", prudent, prudent, guarding, protecting,
guarding, guarding 'Walkers', walkers, dwellers, doers, turners,
keepers, survivers, survivers." For even those walkers who self-control
there.
　　"I said they didn't get through birth and aging": "'Birth, aging,
and death they didn't get through, didn't transcend, didn't pass, didn't
get over, didn't get over, birth, aging, and death are not escaping, not
being left, Not to be crossed, not to be crossed, not to be overcome,
they turn in birth, old age, death, they turn on the cycle of samsara,
accompanied by birth, followed by old age, conquered by disease,
tortured by death, for no shelter, no Refuge, no refuge, no refuge.' I
said, I explained, I taught, I informed, I established, I uncovered, I
parsed, I explained, I explained." For I say they have not lived through
birth and senescence.
　　Because of that, the World -Honored One said,
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Nanda!'] All these ascetics and brahmins, they
say that there is purity in what they see and hear, and they say that
there is purity
　　　in terms of precepts and restraints, and they say that there is
purity in all forms and forms,
　　　even if Those who practice self-control there, I say they have not
passed through birth and aging."
　　50. [Such as Venerable Nanda:] Any of these ascetics, brahmins, they
say that there is purity by what they see and hear, and
　　　they also say by precept There is purity with prohibition, and
there is purity in all forms,
　　　Muni! If you say that they have not survived the storm, then who
is in the world of heaven and man,
　　　dear sir! Survive birth and aging? Lord, I ask you, please tell me
this.
　　"Any of these ascetics, brahmins": "'Anything,' all completely,
completely in every way, nothing leftover, whole, this is the universal
word, 'Anything.' Anyone who enters the procession from outside here,
who enters the procession. 'Brahmin,' whoever calls someone a friend."
For any of these ascetics, brahmins.
　　"[Like this Venerable Nanda]": "'Like this', the continuation of the
sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable", [this is] the love
language... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Nanda", the Brahmin's The
name... (abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is [Venor Nanda like
this].
　　"They say that what they see and hear is pure": "They say, talk,
talk, explain, and talk that seeing is pure, pure, all-purity; freed,
liberated, freed from everywhere... (Abbreviated in the middle) They
also say, talk about Speaking, explaining, speaking, seeing and hearing
are pure, pure, universally pure; freed, liberated, universally freed."
For them they said that by seeing and hearing there is purity.
　　"It is also said that with precepts and restraint there is purity":
"They say, talk, talk, explain, say that with precepts there is purity,
purity, and universal purity; emancipation, liberation, and universal
emancipation... (Abbreviated in the middle) They also say, talk about,
Talking, explaining, speaking, with precepts and restraints, there is
purity, purity, and pervasive purity; emancipation, liberation, and
pervasiveness.” It is also said that precepts and restraints are pure.
　　"It is said that all forms are pure": "They say, talk about, talk
about, explain, and talk about the various types of auspicious signs
that are pure, pure, universally pure; detachment, liberation,
universally detached." In order to say that various forms are pure .
　　"Muni! If you say that they didn't get through the storm": "'If
they' are evil people. 'Muni', Muni is called wisdom... (Abbreviated in
the middle) After transcending the net, he is Muni "You said you haven't
crossed the storm", the storm of desire, the storm of some, the storm of
seeing, the storm of ignorance is not crossed, it is not crossed, it is
not crossed, it is not overcome, they are born , aging, and death turn
inward, they turn on the cycle of samsara, accompanied by birth,
followed by old age, conquered by disease, tortured by death, those who
have no refuge, no refuge, no refuge, no refuge. "You say" , you speak,
you explain, you teach, you inform, you build, you uncover, you analyze,
you clarify, you explain." For Muni! If you say they didn't get through
the storm.
　　"In that case, who is in the world of heaven and man, who has passed
through birth and aging, dear sir": "And who is in the world including
heaven, in the world including demons, in the world including Brahman;
in the world including ascetic Brahman, in the world including heaven-
In the generation of man, birth, old age, death he passes, transcends,
passes, transcends, overcomes. 'Dear sir', which is a synonym for love,
honorific, respectful, obedient, dear sir." For such and such, who in
the world of heaven and man has passed through birth and aging, dear sir!
　　"World Honored One, I ask you, please tell me this": "'I ask you,' I
ask you; I beg you; I beg you; Anri (pseudonym) who testified, namely
"World Honored One". "Please tell me this", please speak, please
explain, please teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover,
please analyze , please clarify, please clarify." I ask you for the
World Honored One, please tell me this.
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"[Venerable Nanda like this:] Any of these ascetics and Brahmins,
they say that there is purity in what they see and hear, and they say
that there is purity
　　　in precepts and restraints, and they say that there is purity in
all forms and forms. ,
　　　Muni! If you say that they have not survived the storm, then who
in the world of heaven and man,
　　　dear sir, has survived birth and aging? Lord, I ask you, please
tell me this."
　　51. [World-Honored One: "Nanda!"] I don't say "all ascetic and
brahmins are surrounded by birth and aging."
　　　Whatever you see or hear or feel here, or even after all precepts
and prohibitions are abandoned,
　　　all kinds of things will change . Having given up all, I said,
"Those who have indeed survived the storm," I say, those who are free
from defilements after all-knowing craving.
　　"[World-Honored One: 'Nanda!'] I do not say 'All ascetic and
Brahmins are encompassed by birth and aging'": "Nanda! I do not say 'All
ascetic and Brahmin are hindered by birth and aging. ), envelop,
obstruct, close (cover), cover, cover', I say, I explain, I teach, I
inform, I build, I uncover, I parse, I clarify, I explain "There are
those Recluses and Brahmins, for whom birth, old age and death have been
abandoned, the roots have been cut off, [as] a palm tree with its roots
cut off becomes non-existent, something that will not be born in the
future." For [World Honored One: " Nanda!"] I do not say "All ascetics
and brahmins are enveloped in birth and aging".
　　"Everything that is seen here, heard or felt, or even the precepts
and prohibitions are all abandoned": "Everything that is seen is pure
and abandoned, abandoned, abandoned, driven away, finished, and brought
to non-existence. ;After everything that is heard is pure and
abandoned... (Abbreviated in the middle) After everything is pure and
felt... After everything that is seen, heard, felt is pure and
abandoned... After all precepts are pure and abandoned... After all
prohibitions are pure and abandoned... After all the precepts and
prohibitions are completely abandoned, abandoned, abandoned, driven
away, brought to an end, and brought to non-existence.” For whatever is
seen or heard here, or even the precepts and prohibitions are all
abandoned. after the break.
　　"After all forms are abandoned": "With all kinds of auspicious signs
there are pure, pure, and universally pure; After it doesn't exist."
After giving up all kinds of things.
　　"Those who are unaffected after omniscient craving, I say 'those who
have indeed passed through the storm'": "The craving is the craving of
form, the craving of sound, the craving of smell, the craving of taste,
the craving of smell, the craving of taste, The craving of touch, the
craving of Dharma. "After all-knowing craving", there are three kinds of
all-knowing and all-knowing craving: knowing-knowing,
estimating-knowing, and renunciation-knowing. What is knowing-knowing?
"Know the craving: this is the craving for form, this is the craving for
the sound, this is the craving for the smell, this is the craving for
the taste, this is the craving for the touch, this is the craving for
the Dhamma." He Knowing and seeing are known and omniscient.
　　What is the measure of omniscience? After knowing this, craving for
it to measure it is impermanence, suffering, disease, tumor... (Omitted)
He makes it measure It is renunciation, it is the measure of omniscience.
　　What is renunciation of omniscience? In this way, craving for him to
renounce it, drive it away, end it, and bring it to non-existence. This
was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! All desire and craving related to
craving, you must give up, so that craving will be abandoned, and the
root will be cut off, [like] a palm tree whose root has been cut off,
and become non-existent, for the future not to be born. SN.22.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.25>]. This is
renunciation of omniscience. "After all-knowing craving", with these
three kinds of all-knowing and all-knowing after craving. "Those without
afflictions" have four kinds of afflictions: the affliction of desire,
the affliction of existence, the affliction of seeing, and the
affliction of ignorance. For them, these defilements have been
abandoned, their roots have been cut off, [like] a palm tree with its
roots cut off, and become non-beings, things that will not arise in the
future, and they are called those without defilements, arahants,
defilements. Those who are exhausted are those who have no troubles
after omniscient craving.
　　"I say 'those people do pass through the storm'": to those who are
free from defilements after omniscience and craving, I say, I explain, I
teach, I inform, I establish, I uncover, I analyze, I clarify, I
explained, "The flood of their desires has been passed; some floods have
passed; the flood of seeing has passed; the flood of ignorance has
passed; all samsara has passed, has come out, has passed, crossed,
crossed, overcome." ' For those who are free from defilements after
omniscient craving, I say, 'Those people do get through the storm'.
　　Because of that, the Blessed One said,
　　"[World Honored One: 'Nanda!'] I do not say 'All ascetics and
Brahmins are encompassed by birth and old age', everything that is
　　　seen or heard or felt here, or even the precepts and prohibitions
are all After abandonment, after
　　　all forms are also abandoned, I know all those who have no worries
after craving, and I say, "Those people have indeed survived the storm .
　　" Mo is a dependent-less person,
　　　whoever sees or hears or feels here, or even after all precepts
and prohibitions have been abandoned, and all forms and
　　　forms are also abandoned, and those who have no troubles after
omniscience and craving, I also say, "They have passed through. storm".
　　"I am very happy with this word of Daxian": "'This', your words,
language, teaching, teaching, admonition. I am very happy: I am very
happy, I am happy, I am happy, I want, I use [ , I beg], I hope, I
yearn, I beg. "Great Immortal", why is the World-Honored One a Great
Immortal? Where is the king?" For the great immortal." I am very happy
with the words of the great immortal.
　　"Telling: Gautama is an unreliable author": "'Telling', Telling [,
Explaining], Explaining, Teaching, Informing, Building, Debunking Open,
analysable, clarified, and explained. "Gautama is the unreliable
author." Dependence is called defilements and khandhas and fabrications.
The renunciation of attachment, the cessation of attachment , the
renunciation of attachment, the cessation of attachment, immortality,
nirvana." To be narrated for good: Gotama is the unreliable writer.
　　"Everything that is seen here, heard or felt, or even the precepts
and prohibitions are all abandoned": "Everything that is seen is pure
and abandoned, abandoned, abandoned, driven away, finished, and brought
to non-existence. ;After everything that is heard is pure and
abandoned... (Abbreviated in the middle) After everything is pure and
felt... After everything that is seen, heard, felt is pure and
abandoned... After all precepts are pure and abandoned... After all
prohibitions are pure and abandoned... After all the precepts and
prohibitions are completely abandoned, abandoned, abandoned, driven
away, brought to an end, and brought to non-existence.” For whatever is
seen or heard here, or even the precepts and prohibitions are all
abandoned. after the break.
　　"After all forms are abandoned": "With all kinds of auspicious signs
there are pure, pure, and universally pure; After it doesn't exist."
After giving up all kinds of things.
　　"Those who are unaffected after omniscient craving, I also say 'they
have passed through the storm'": "craving" is craving for form, craving
for sound, craving for smell, craving for taste, craving for touch The
thirst for the Dhamma, the thirst for the Dhamma. "After omniscient
craving", there are three types of omniscient and omniscient craving:
knowing omniscient, measuring omniscient, and abandoning omniscient.
What is all-knowing? "Know the craving: this is the craving for form,
this is the craving for the sound, this is the craving for the smell,
this is the craving for the taste, this is the craving for the touch,
this is the craving for the Dhamma." He To know, to see, is to know and
know.
　　What is Measured Omniscience? Knowing this, craving for him makes
him measure impermanence, suffering, disease, tumor, arrow, calamity,
disease, the other side, corruption, calamity, calamity, terror,
calamity , mobile, perishable, weak, no shelter, no refuge, no refuge,
no refuge, abandoned, false, empty, selfless, fault, change, untruth The
root of misfortune, the murderer, the non-existent, the leaky, the
active, the magic food (bait), the birth method, the old method, the
sick method, the death method, the sadness, sorrow and despair, the
pollution method, he makes The measure is the arising, the cessation,
the pleasure, the trouble, and the renunciation. This is the measure of
omniscience.
　　What is renunciation of omniscience? After such a measure, craving
for him to give up, drive away, end it, and bring it to non-existence is
the omniscience of renunciation.
　　"After omniscient craving", with these three kinds of omniscient and
omniscient craving. There are four kinds of afflictions: the afflictions
of desire, the afflictions of existence, the afflictions of seeing, and
the afflictions of ignorance. For them, these defilements have been
abandoned, their roots have been cut off, [like] a palm tree with its
roots cut off, and become non-beings, things that will not arise in the
future, and they are called those without defilements, arahants,
defilements. Those who are exhausted are those who have no troubles
after omniscient craving. "Those who are free from defilements after
omniscient craving, I also say 'they have passed through the flood'":
"Those who are free from defilements after omniscient craving, I also
say, 'The flood of their desires has passed; some The storm has passed;
the storm of seeing has passed; the storm of ignorance has passed; all
samsara has passed, has come out, has passed, passed through, passed
over, overcome." The unaffected ones after craving, I also say "they go
through the storm".
　　Because of that, the Brahmin said,
　　"I am overjoyed at the words of the great immortal, which are well
narrated: Gautama is an unreliable writer,
　　　All those who have seen or heard or felt here, or even have given
up all precepts and prohibitions,
　　　have given up all forms, and have no defilements after all-knowing
craving, I also say, "They have passed through the storm." '
　　The seventh [completed] of the explanation asked by the Brahmin, a
student of Nanda.


Excerpt:
　It is not through seeing, hearing, precepts, and restraint that purity
and wisdom (eight-level ultimate wisdom and the five spiritual wisdom)
can be liberated, but rather by giving up all kinds of forms, knowing
all about craving.
　10/21/2020 06:25
Notes:
