Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
8. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Hermagar


53. [Like this Venerable Hermagar:] Whatever they told me before,
before the teachings of Gautama,


　like this and that was, like this and that will be , it's all rumors,


　it's all theoretical growth, and I'm not overjoyed there.


"Whatever they told me before": "Vanbavali Brahmins and all the
other agali, they explain, explain, teach, inform, establish, unravel,
interpret, clarify, explain their own views, their own likes, their own
my hobbies, my own opinions, my own intentions, my own intentions.” For
what they told me before.


"[Like this, Venerable Heimaq]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the
sentence, which is 'like this'. 'Sir', [this is] the love language...
... (abbreviated in the middle). 'Heimag', the name of the Brahmin...
(abbreviated in the middle) called." It is [such as the Venerable Ayito].


"Before Gautama's teaching": "Before Gautama's teaching, on the
other side of Gautama's teaching, before Gautama's teaching; before
Gautama's teaching, Buddha's teaching The admonition, the admonition of
the victors, the admonition of the Tathagata, the beginning of the
admonition of the Arahant." Before the admonition of Gautama.


"Like this that was, like this that will be": "It is said that it is
like this, it is said that it will be like this." For like this that
was, like this that would be.


"It's all hearsay": "It's all hearsay, hearsay, lineage, the
teachings of scriptures, logical deductions, reasoning, contemplation of
theories, opinions received after contemplation, they speak not by
themselves, not by themselves. The proven law.” Because it’s all rumors.


"It's all an increase in theory": "It's all an increase in theory,
an increase in questing, an increase in thinking, an increase in lust,
an increase in malicious questing, an increase in injurious questing,
and the increase in self-seeking. The increase of the quest of the land,
the increase of the quest of immortality, the increase of the quest of
sympathy for others, the increase of the quest of honor and honor, the
increase of the quest of not being despised.” Because that's all
theoretical augmentation.


"I didn't have great joy there": "I didn't have great joy there,
didn't get, didn't realize, didn't get." Because I didn't have great joy
there.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[Like this Venerable Hermagar:] Whatever they told me before,
before the teachings of Gautama,


　like this and that was, like this and that will be, that is all
Rumors,


　it's all theoretical augmentation, I have no great joy there."


54. Please preach for me: Destruction of craving, Muni!


　Anyone who knows the mindfulness of hindsight can overcome the
love in the world.


"Please declare the Dharma for me": "'You', he said the
World-Honored One. 'Dharma', 'Dharma', beginning with goodness, middle
is good, and complete is good; meaningful, with words; fully
consummated, full The pure holy life: the four mindfulness, the four
right efforts, the four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five
powers, the seven factors of enlightenment, the eight noble paths,
nirvana and the path leading to nirvana, please speak, please explain,
please Teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover, please
parse, please clarify, please explain.” To please you to declare the
Word for me.


"Destruction of craving, Muni": "The craving of 'craving' for sex...
(the middle abbreviated) craving of the Dharma. The cessation of
thoughts, the cessation of craving, immortality, and nirvana. "Muni,"
Muni is called wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending
the net, he is Muni." For the destruction of craving, Muni!


"Those who practice mind after knowing": "Those who know, measure,
judge, discriminate, and clarify: 'All actions are impermanent' after
knowing, measuring, judging, discriminating, After clarifying; "All
actions are suffering"... (Middle abbreviation) "All dharmas are
non-self"... (Middle abbreviation) "Any collection of dharmas is a
cessation of dharmas" After knowing, evaluating, judging, and
distinguishing , After clarifying. "Thinking", there are four ways to be
mindful: When practicing mindfulness of the body along with the body, it
is mindful... (Abbreviated in the middle) He is called mindful. ', when
walking, staying, moving, turning, guarding, making existence, making
existence." For those who know the hindsight with mindfulness.


"Love that can pass through the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "Love", "What is the meaning of
love? ... (Abbreviated) enlarged attachment." For love. "In the world"
refers to the world of suffering, the world of human beings, the world
of gods, the world of khandha, the world of worlds, and the world of
beings. "Can pass through the love in the world": "The love in the
world, or the love in the world [ Ni.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>], he can pass, transcend, pass,
pass, overcome. "To be able to pass through the love in the world.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"Please preach for me: Destruction of craving, Muni!


　Whoever knows the mind of hindsight can overcome the love in the
world."


55. Here in what I see and hear , What I feel, what I know, in terms
of cuteness, Heima Ge!


　Desire and greed are driven away, and it is the state of Nirvana,
immortality.


"Here in what we see, what we hear, what we feel, what we know":
"What we see is seen by the eyes. What we hear is heard by our ears.
What we feel is smelled by the nose, tasted by the tongue, and Physical
contact. 'Knowledge', known by consciousness." Here in what you see,
what you hear, what you feel, what you know.


"In terms of cuteness, Heimag": "What are the lovely and desirable
shapes in the world? The eyes are the lovely shapes and the desirable
shapes in the world; the ears are the worlds... (abbreviated) The nose
is the world. ...the tongue is in the world...the body is in the
world...the meaning is in the world of lovely and desirable forms; form
is the lovely and desirable in the world; sound is in the world...smell
is in the world... The taste is in the world...the touch is in the
world...the dharmas are the lovely and agreeable forms in the world; the
eye-consciousness is the lovely and agreeable forms in the world; the
ear-consciousness is the lovely and agreeable forms in the world The
nose-consciousness is in the world...the tongue-consciousness is in the
world...the body-consciousness is in the world...the consciousness is
the lovely and agreeable forms in the world; the eye-contact is the
lovely and agreeable forms in the world; the ear-contact is In the
world... nose-contact is in the world... tongue-contact is in the
world... body-contact is in the world... mind-contact is in the world of
lovely and desirable forms; Appealing forms and forms; sensations
arising from ear-contact...feelings arising from nose-contact...feelings
arising from tongue-contact...feelings arising from
body-contact...feelings arising from mind-contact are the lovely forms
and desirable forms in the world; It is in the world... the sound is in
the world... the smell is in the world... the taste is in the world...
the touch is in the world... the law is in the world. In the
world...sound thoughts are in the world...smell thoughts are in the
world...smell thoughts are in the world...touched thoughts are in the
world...fa thoughts are the lovely and desirable forms in the world; the
craving of form It is in the world...the craving for sound is in the
world...the craving for smell is in the world...the craving for taste is
in the world...the craving for touch is in the world...the craving for
the Dharma is in the world Shapes, agreeable shapes; Colors are in the
world... Sound is in the world... Smell is in the world... Taste is in
the world... Touch is in the world... Faxun is in the world Form,
agreeable form; form is the lovely form in the world, agreeable form;
sound is in the world... smell is in the world... taste is in the
world... touch is in the world... Dharma is in the world It's the cute
and desirable shapes in the world." In terms of cuteness, Heimag!


"Desire, greed": "Desire, greed", that is lust, lust, lust, lust,
lust, lust, lust, lust , the grasping of desire, the violent flow of
desire, the yoke of desire (bonding), the grasping of desire, the cover
of desire of desire. "Removal of desire and greed": "Abandoning desire
and greed; cessation of desire and greed; cessation of desire and greed;
cessation of desire and greed; immortality and nirvana."


"It is the realm of Nirvana and immortality": "The realm of Nirvana
(foot/footprint/road/sentence) is the realm of rescue, refuge, refuge,
and no terror. "Immortal", constant, Solid, eternal, unchangeable." It
is the state of Nirvana, immortal.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said: "Here in what we see,
what we hear, what we feel, what we know


, in what is lovely, Heimagar!


　Desire and greed are driven away, and it is the state of Nirvana,
immortal."


56. Understanding These latter beings who are mindful are those who
see the Dharma, those who are completely cool,


　and they are always silent, passing through the love in the world.


"Those who have thought after knowing this": "'This' is immortality,
nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions, the cessation of all
attachments, the cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, the
cessation of nirvana. After", after knowing, after understanding, after
measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. "All
actions are impermanent" after knowing, after understanding, after
measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying; "All
deeds are suffering"..."All dharmas are non-self"... (Abbreviated in the
middle) "Any collection of dharmas is cessation of dharmas" After
knowing, understanding, evaluating, judging, distinguishing, and
clarifying. "Those who..." are Arahants, those who have exhausted their
taints. "Those who are mindful" are mindful in four ways: they are
mindful when they practise mindfulness of the body along with the
body...( He is called a mindful one." In order to know this latter
person who is mindful.


"The one who sees the Dharma, the one who completely cools down":
"The one who sees the Dharma, the one who sees the Dharma (the one who
sees the Dharma/dangsheng), the one who knows the Dharma, the one who
measures the Dharma, the one who judges the Dharma, and the one who
understands the Dharma A person who understands the law. The seer of the
law that "all actions are impermanent"... (Abbreviated in the middle)
The seer of the law, the knower of the law, the measurer of the law, the
person of the law Judges, those who know the law, those who understand
the law. "Complete cooling", those who are greedy and who make the
cooling state cool; those who are hated who make the cooling state cool;
those who are delusional who make the cooling state cool; those who are
angry... (abbreviated in the middle) resentful...all unwholesome and
contrived states have been quiet, quiet, calm, extinguished, cooled,
gone, quiet, quiet, quiet The ones that come down, the ones that cool
down, the ones that stop." are those who see the Dharma, those who are
completely cool.


"And they are always silent": "'The silent', 'the one who greed
makes the state of stillness, the one who makes the state of cooling be
still... ...(middle abbreviated) hatred... idiotic... angry...
resentful... (middle abbreviated) all unwholesome and pretentious states
that have been quieted, calmed down, calmed down, extinguished, cooled
down, separated The gone state, the rested state is stillness,
stillness, calming, cooling, resting." are silent. "They" are Arahants,
those whose defilements have been exhausted. "Always", always[
;everything]; all times; always; constant time; everlasting;
continually; uninterrupted; successively; the waves of water arise
without interval; continually accompany and touch; before noon, noon,
first night, Midnight, late night; in the dark moon, in the bright moon,
in the rainy season, in winter, in summer; in youth, middle age, old
age.” For and they are always silent.


"Passing through the love of the world": Love is called craving,
which is greed, greed... (abridged) greed, the root of unwholesome
greed. "Love": "What is the meaning of love? ... (Abbreviated) Enlarged
attachment." For love. "In the world": in the world of the suffering
world... (abbreviated in the middle) in the world. "Crossing over the
love in the world": "The love in the world, or the love in the world [
Ni.1 <https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni1.htm>], has passed through, has
transcended, has transcended, has passed through, has passed over, has
overcome. "To pass through the love in the world.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"Those who are mindful after knowing this are those who see the
Dharma, those who are completely cool,


　and they are always silent, passing through the love of the world."


At the end of the verse... (abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! It is my teacher, and I am my disciple."


The eighth [Completed] of the explanation asked by the Brahmin, a
student of Hermagar.


Excerpt:
　How to destroy craving? In what we see, what we hear, what we
perceive, what we perceive, in what is lovely, and in the form of love,
desire and greed are driven away, and it is the state of Nirvana, immortal.
　10/21/2020 06:14
Notes:



