Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
9. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Durya,


57. [Such as Venerable Durya:] For those who have no desires for
him, cravings are not found for him,


　and those who have overcome doubts, What does his liberation look
like?


"Anyone who does not live in his desires": "Anyone who does not live
in his desires, does not live together, does not abide, does not stay
(pervasive)." For those who do not live in his desires.


"[Like this, Venerable Dudeya]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the
sentence, which is 'like this'. 'Sir', this is the love language... (
Abbreviated in the middle). "Dudeya", the name of the Brahmin...
(abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is [the Venerable Dudeya like
this].


"For him craving is not discovered": "For him craving is not, does
not exist, is not known, is not discovered, [has been abandoned, cut
off, calmed down, ceased, cannot arise ,] burnt by the fire of wisdom."
For him the craving was not found.


"And every doubt has been passed": "And every doubt has been passed,
surpassed, passed over, passed through, passed over, overcome." For and
all doubt has passed.


"What does his liberation look like": "'What does his liberation
look like, what is established, what kind, what contrast should be
desired?' He asks about liberation." For What does his liberation look
like?


Because of that, the Brahmin said:


"[Like this Venerable Dodeya:] For whoever is incapable of his
desires, his craving is undiscovered for him,


　and whoever has passed through doubts, his liberation is What does
it look like?"


58. [World Honored One: "Dudeya!"] For those who are insatiable with
their desires, craving goes undiscovered to him,


　and for those who have passed through doubts, there is no need for
him to do so. further relief.


"Anyone who has no desire for him": "Anyone who is in him", a
person, an arahant, who has exhausted all taints. "Desire", there are
two kinds of desire from the ode: the desire for things and the desire
for pollution... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called the desire
for things... (Abbreviated in the middle) These are called the desire
for pollution. "Anyone who does not live in his desires": "Anyone who
does not live in his desires, does not live together, does not abide,
does not stay (pervasive)." For those who do not live in his desires.


"[World-Honored One: 'Dudeya!']": "'Dudeya', the World-Honored One
addressed the Brahmin by his first name. 'World-Honored One', this is a
synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anri (pseudonym) who
testified, That is, the Blessed One." is [World-Honored One: "Dudeya!"]


"For him craving is not found": "craving", craving for appearance,
craving for sound, craving for smell, craving for taste Love, craving
for touch, craving for Dhamma. "To him," to the Arahant, to the one
whose defilements have been exhausted. "For him craving is
undiscovered": "For him craving is not, does not exist, is not known, is
not discovered, is abandoned, is cut off, is calmed down, ceases, cannot
arise, Burned by the fire of wisdom." For him the craving went
undiscovered.


"And those who have passed through doubts": doubts are called
doubts: doubts in suffering... (abbreviated in the middle) a rigid state
of mind (a state of stubbornness), confusion of mind. "Whoever...",
whoever he is an Arahant, who has exhausted all the defilements. "And
those who have passed over doubts": "And those who have passed over,
have surpassed, have passed over, have passed through, have passed over,
have been overcome." For and those who have passed over doubts.


"There is no further liberation for him": "There is no further
liberation for him, what should be liberated he has been liberated, and
what should be liberated has been done for him." Said there was no
further relief.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said:


"[World-Honored One: 'Dudeya!'] For those who have no desires for
him, craving goes undiscovered for him,


　and for those who have passed through doubts, there is no more to
him. Further liberation."


59. Is he a wisher or a wisher? Is he wise orSuch as the wise?


　Shakya! With this I can understand Muni: All Eyes, please explain
that for me.


"Is he one who is free from desire or one who desires": "Is he one
who has no craving or one who has craving?
...family...group(congregation)...home...profit...reputation...praise...pleasure...clothing...food...housing...patient's needs, medical necessities...desire realm...form realm... ... formless realm... desire has... form has... formless has... desire has... no desire has... neither thinking nor non-thinking has... one aggregate... four aggregates... five aggregates... past... ... future ... present ... all things that he sees, hears, feels, can be known, he wishes, accepts, prays, desires, prays." Because he is a wish-free or a wisher?


"He is wise or wise": "'He is wise', he is wise, wise, enlightened,
wise, wise, wise. 'or wise' , or with the eight-level supreme wisdom, or
with the wisdom of the five supernatural beings, or with the evil
wisdom, the construction of craving, or the construction of view, he
builds, produces, produces, produces, produces." For him The wise or the
wise.


"Sakyamuni! I can understand Muni by relying on it": "Sakyamuni",
"Sakyamuni Buddha is a monk from the house of Sakyamuni." It is
Sakyamuni. Or, "the rich, the rich, the rich." Also Shakyamuni. For him
there are these wealth, namely: wealth of faith, wealth of precepts,
wealth of shame, wealth of shame, wealth of hearing, wealth of charity,
wealth of wisdom, wealth of mindfulness, wealth of righteous diligence,
wealth of spiritual sufficiency, wealth of roots, wealth of strength,
wealth of enlightenment The wealth, the wealth of the path, the wealth
of fruit, and the wealth of Nirvana, these various treasures are called
the rich, the rich, and the rich. Or, "[Those who may,] those who can,
those who flow out of all kinds, those who are sufficient, those who are
heroic, those who are brave, those who are brave, those who are not
afraid, those who are not afraid, those who do not panic, those who do
not flee, those who have given up their fears, those who have left Those
whose body hair stands up." Also known as Shakyamuni. "Sakyamuni! I can
understand Muni by relying on it": "Sakyamuni! By relying on it, I can
know, understand, distinguish, know with certainty, and penetrate Muni."
For Sakyamuni! In this way, I can understand Muni.


"All eyes, please explain that for me": "'that', whatever I ask;
whatever I beg; whatever I ask; whatever makes me clear. 'Please
explain', please explain, please Teach, please inform, please establish,
please uncover, please analyze, please clarify, please explain. "All
eyes", all eyes are called the state wisdom of all knowing...
(Abbreviated) Tathagata because That is for all eyes." For all eyes,
please explain that for me.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"Is he who is free from desire or desire? He is wise or wise?


　Shakyamuni! By this I can understand Muni: All eyes, please
explain that to me."


60. He is the one who leaves the wish rather than the one who
wishes, and he is the one who is wise rather than the one who is wise,


　Duoya! Knowing Muni in this way: No owner, no clinging to desire
and existence.


"He is one who is free from desire, not one who desires": "He is one
who is free from craving, all forms he does not desire, all sounds...
(abbreviated) all smells... what is seen, heard, felt, can be known He
does not desire, does not receive, does not desire, does not desire,
does not ask for all things.” Because he is the one who leaves the
desire and not the one who desires.


"He is wise, not wise": "'He is wise,' he is wise, wise,
enlightened, wise, wise, wise. 'Not wise. With the eighth-level supreme
wisdom, or with the wisdom of the five supernatural beings, or with evil
wisdom, the construction of craving he does not build, or the
construction of view he does not build, does not cause it to arise, does
not cause it to produce, and does not cause it to arise , do not cause
it to arise." Because he is wise and not wise.


"Dujuya! Knowing Muni like this": "Muni", Muni is called wisdom...
(Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending and dyeing the net, he is
Muni. "Dujuya! Know Muni like this": "Dujuya! Know, agree, know, and
understand Muni like this." For Dujuya! This is how I know Muni.


"No owner, no attachment to desire and existence": "No owner", greed
has nothing; hatred has nothing; ignorance has nothing; arrogance has
nothing; seeing has nothing; pollution has nothing ; Whoever has no evil
deeds, to whom any of these has been abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
ceased, cannot arise, is burned by the fire of wisdom, he is called
ownerless. "Desire", there are two kinds of desire from the ode: the
desire for things and the desire for pollution... (Abbreviated in the
middle) These are called the desire for things... (Abbreviated in the
middle) These are called the desire for pollution. "There are", there
are two kinds of existence: the existence of karma and the rebirth of
rebirth... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the reincarnation of
rebirth.


"There is no owner, no attachment to desire and existence": "Those
who have no possession are unattached, unattached, unattached,
unobstructed in desire and existence. Leaving, freed, freed from
bondage, he dwells with a mind free from limitations." He is one who has
no owner, no attachment to desire and existence.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"He is one who is free from desire, not one who desires; he is one
who is wise, not one who is wise,


　Duraya! This is how Muni is known: he who has no owner, who has no
attachment to desire and existence. ."


At the end of the verse... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am my disciple.


"


Note:
　Those who have no desires, who have been freed from cravings, and who
have been freed from doubts are those who have no owner, who have no
attachment to desire and existence, and who have no further liberation.
　10/21/2020 06:11
