Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
10. Explanation asked by Brahmin, a student of Ge Bo


61. [Such as this Venerable Ge Bo:] To those who stand in the flow,
when the great horrific torrent arises,


　to those who are tormented by old age and death, dear sir! Please
tell me about the island,


　please tell me about the island, and there will be no follow-up.


"To those who stand in the flow": "The flow is called samsara:
coming, going, coming and going, the place of death, all kinds of
passing, rebirth, birth, disintegration, birth, aging, death. The
beginning of samsara. The point is not known [ SN.15.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=15.1>], and the end point
is not known, just in the middle of samsara, all beings are established,
stopped, attached, entered, stained, and directed.


How does samsara arise? The starting point is not known? "Only such
a cycle of births revolves, and then it does not revolve." It is not
true, this is the starting point of reincarnation is not known. "Only
such a hundred births revolve. It is not so, and the starting point of
samsara is not known. "Only a thousand births like this are samsara, and
they do not revolve after that." It is not true, it is also true The
starting point of reincarnation is not known. "Only such a hundred
thousand births revolve, and then they do not revolve." This is indeed
not the case, so the starting point of reincarnation is also unknown.
"Just such a thousand 10,000 births revolve, and then they do not
revolve.” That’s not true, and this is also the origin of reincarnation
that is not known. “Only such millions of births revolve, and then do
not revolve.” It’s not true, this is also the starting point of samsara
that is not known. “Only thousands of births like this have spun around,
and they don’t revolve after that.” That’s really not the case, this is
also the beginning of samsara. The point is not known. "Only these
millions of births are revolved, and then they do not revolve." This is
not the case, and the starting point of reincarnation is also unknown.


"Only one year turns around like this, and it doesn't turn around
after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the starting point of
reincarnation that is not known. "Only such a hundred-year cycle
started, and it didn't start after that. 』It is not so, and it is also
the starting point of reincarnation that is not known. "Only this
millennium turns around, and it doesn't turn around after that. 』It is
not so, and it is also the starting point of reincarnation that is not
known. "It's just this one hundred thousand years of spinning, and it
doesn't spin after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the starting
point of reincarnation that is not known. "Only these thousands of years
have turned around, and they will not turn around after that. 』It is
not so, and it is also the starting point of reincarnation that is not
known. "Only these millions of years turn around, and they don't turn
around after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the starting point of
reincarnation that is not known. "Only these thousands of thousands of
years have been rotated, and they will not be rotated after that. 』It
is not so, and it is also the starting point of reincarnation that is
not known. "Only these thousands of thousands of years have turned
around, and they will not turn around after that. 』It is not so, and it
is also the starting point of reincarnation that is not known.


"Only this one calamity turns around, and it doesn't turn around
after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the starting point of
reincarnation that is not known. "Only such a hundred kalpas turn
around, and it doesn't turn around after that. 』It is not so, and it is
also the starting point of reincarnation that is not known. "Only this
thousand kalpas turned around, and it didn't turn around after that. 』
It is not so, and it is also the starting point of reincarnation that is
not known. "Only the wheel of a hundred thousand kalpas turns like this,
and it doesn't turn after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the
starting point of reincarnation that is not known. "Only the wheel of
thousands of kalpas turns around like this, and it doesn't turn around
after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the starting point of
reincarnation that is not known. "Only the wheel of thousands of kalpas
like this turns around, and it doesn't turn around after that. 』It is
not so, and it is also the starting point of reincarnation that is not
known. "It's just that thousands of thousands of kalpas like this turn
around, and it doesn't turn around after that. 』It is not so, and it is
also the starting point of reincarnation that is not known. "It's just
that the wheel of thousands of kalpas turns around like this, and it
doesn't turn around after that. 』It is not so, and it is also the
starting point of reincarnation that is not known.


This was said by the Blessed One: "Bhikkhus! This cycle of samsara
has no beginning. The circulation of sentient beings covered by
ignorance and craving, and the starting point of samsara are not known.
...Bhikkhus! [You] have experienced suffering, heavy experience, and
unhappiness for so long, increasing the cemetery, monks! To that extent,
that's enough to get tired of everything! Enough to get rid of the dye!
Enough to be liberated! [ SN.15.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=15.1>]] This is also the
starting point of reincarnation is not known.


How is the end of reincarnation not known? "Only such a cycle of
birth will take place, and after that it will not take place. 』It is
not so, this is the end of reincarnation is not known. "Just such a
hundred births...just such a thousand births...just such a hundred
thousand births...just such a million births...just such a million
births...just such a thousand thousand births... 10,000 births... just
such a million births... just such a year... just such a hundred
years... just such a thousand years... just such a hundred thousand
years... just such a thousand years ... only such a million years ...
only such a thousand thousand years ... only such a thousand thousand
thousand years ... only such a calamity ... only such a hundred eons ...
only such a thousand eons... ... only such a hundred thousand eons...
only such a hundred thousand thousand eons... only such a thousand
thousand thousand a thousand thousand eons... only such a thousand
thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand eons will turn, and then
will not turn up. ' It's not really like that, and it's also the end of
reincarnation that is not known. In this way, the starting point of
reincarnation is not known, and the ending point of reincarnation is
also not known. Right in the middle of samsara, all beings are
established, stopped, attached, entered, defiled, and turned toward. ”
for those standing in the flow.


"[Like this, Venerable Gebo]": "'Like this', the continuation of the
sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable", this is the love
language... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Gebo", the name of the
Brahmin... ... (abbreviated in the middle) called." It is [Venerage Ge
Bo like this].


"When the great outburst of terror is arising": "When the outburst
of desire, the outburst of being, the outburst of seeing, the outburst
of ignorance is arising, is produced, is born, is born, is brought
forth." The great terror', the terror of life, the terror of old age,
the terror of sickness, the terror of death." is when the great outburst
of terror arises.


"To those who are tortured by aging and death": "To those who are
touched, tormented, combined, and possessed by aging; to those who are
touched, tormented, combined, and possessed by death; to those who are
accompanied by birth, to those who are old, and to those who are
conquered by disease. For those who are struck by death, for those who
have no shelter, for those who have no refuge, for those who have no
refuge, and for those who have no refuge.” For those who are tortured by
aging and death.


"Dear sir! Please tell me about the island": "Please speak, please
explain, please teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover,
please analyze, please clarify, please explain the island, Shelter,
sanctuary, refuge, where to go, where to fall back on. 'Dear sir', which
is synonymous with love, honorific, respectful, submissive, dear sir."
Dear sir! Please tell us about the island.


"Please declare the island for me": "'You', he said the World
Honored One. "Explain the Island", please declare, please explain,
please teach, please inform, please establish, please open , Please
analyze, please clarify, please explain the island, the shelter, the
refuge, the refuge, the place to go, the place of refuge." To ask you to
explain the island for me.


"According to this, there will be no subsequent": "According to
this, this suffering can be extinguished, can be calmed down, can go to
non-existence, can cease; the suffering of rebirth does not occur; in
the desire realm , or in the realm of form, or in the realm of no form,
or in the realm of desire, or in form, or in formless, or in thought, or
without thought, or in non-thinking, non-non-thinking, or in a The
aggregates exist, or in the four aggregates, or in the five aggregates,
or in a further destination, or in rebirth, or in rebirth, or in
existence, or in samsara, or in samsara. It can be produced, it can't
arise, it can't be brought into being, it can be passed away, it can be
calmed down, it can go to non-existence, it can cease.


Because of that, the Brahmin said:


"[Such as this Venerable Gepo:] To those who stand in the flow, when
the great torrent of terror arises,


　to those who are tormented by old age and death, dear sir! Tell me
about the island,


　Please declare the island for me, so there will be no follow-up.”


62. [World-Honored One: "Gebo!"] To those who stand in the flow,
when the great horrific torrent arises,


　to those who are tormented by aging and death, Gebo! I will tell
you about the island.


"To those who stand in the flow": "The flow is called samsara:
coming, going, coming and going, the place of death, all kinds of
passing, rebirth, birth, disintegration, birth, aging, death. The
beginning of samsara. The point is not known [ SN.15.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=15.1>], and the end point
is not known, just in the middle of samsara, all beings are established,
stopped, attached, entered, stained, and directed.


How does samsara arise? The starting point is not
known?...(Abbreviated) This is the starting point of reincarnation and
is not known. What is the ending point of reincarnation?...(Abbreviated)
This is the end point of reincarnation and is not known. All beings are
established, stopped, clinging, entered, defiled, and directed." For
those who are standing in the flow.


"[World Honored One: 'Gebo!']": "'Gebo', the World Honored One
addressed that Brahmin by name. 'World Honored One', this is a synonym
for respect... (Abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym) who
testified, namely the World Honored One ." is [World Honored One: "Gebo!"]


"When the great horrific storm arises": "In the storm of desire, the
storm of some, the storm of seeing, the storm of ignorance arises, is
produced, To be born, to be born, to appear. "In the great terror," the
terror of life, the terror of old age, the terror of sickness, the
terror of death." It is when the great terror is born.


"To those who are tortured by aging and death": "To those who are
touched, tormented, combined, and possessed by aging; to those who are
touched, tormented, combined, and possessed by death; to those who are
accompanied by birth, to those who are old, and to those who are
conquered by disease. For those who are struck by death, for those who
have no shelter, for those who have no refuge, for those who have no
refuge, and for those who have no refuge.” For those who are tortured by
aging and death.


"Gebo! I tell you about the island": "I say, I explain, I teach, I
inform, I build, I uncover, I analyze, I explain, I explain the island,
shelter, refuge, refuge, Where to go, where to depend on." It's Ge Bo! I
will tell you about the island.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[The Blessed One: 'Gebo!'] To those who stand in the flow, when the
great torrent of terror arises,


　to those who are tormented by the death of old age, Gebo! I tell
you about the island."


63 No possessions, no attachments, this is the island of no further
progress,


　like this I say it is Nirvana: the cessation of birth and aging.


"Nothing, no attachment": "'Anything', greed is a thing (obstacle);
hatred is a thing; delusion is a thing; arrogance is a thing; seeing is
a thing; defilement is a thing; evil deeds are a thing It is a thing,
"abandoning of anything, pacification of anything, cessation of thought
of anything, cessation of anything, immortality, nirvana." It is
nothing. "Non-attachment", which is called craving, That is greed, greed
(total greed)... (abbreviated in the middle) greed, the unwholesome root
of greed. The abandonment of clinging, the cessation of clinging, the
cessation of clinging, the cessation of clinging, immortality, nirvana."
, do not insist.


"This is the island of no further": "This is the island, the refuge,
the refuge, the refuge, the place to go, the place of refuge. 'There is
no further', there is no other island on the other side, no other
island, At that time, that island of this kind was the first, the most
victorious, the supreme, the first, the highest, the highest." Because
this is the island of no further progress.


"Like this I say that is Nirvana": " WeavingIt is called craving,
that is greed, greed... (the middle abbreviated) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. Weaving renunciation, weaving calm, weaving
cessation, weaving cessation, immortality, nirvana. "Like this", the
continuation of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection
of sentences; the combination of words; the connection of words; this is
the order of sentences, which is "like this". "I speak", I speak, I
explain, I teach, I inform, I establish, I uncover, I decipher, I
clarify, I explain. ' For like this I say that it is Nirvana.


"The cessation of birth and ageing": "The cessation of birth and
ageing, cessation of thought, cessation, immortality, nirvana" is the
cessation of birth and ageing.


Because of that, the Blessed One said,


"Without possessions, without clinging, this is an island with no
further progress. Like this I say it is Nirvana: the

cessation


　of birth and aging." Those who see the law, those who are
completely cooled,

　they do not follow the control of the devil,
they are not the followers of the devil.

"Those who have thought
after knowing this": "'This' is immortality, nirvana, that is the
cessation of all actions, the cessation of all attachments, the
cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, the cessation of nirvana.
After", after understanding, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. "All actions are
impermanent"... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Everything that gathers is
a dharma" After understanding, after understanding , after weighing,
after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. "Everyone" is an
arahant, one who has exhausted all taints. "Those who have mindfulness"
are those who have mindfulness in four ways: when practicing on the body
Those who are mindful when they are mindful of the body... (abbreviated
in the middle) are called those who are mindful." In order to know this
latter person who is mindful.





"The one who sees the Dharma, the one who completely cools down":
"The one who sees the Dharma, the one who sees the Dharma (the one who
sees the Dharma/dangsheng), the one who knows the Dharma, the one who
measures the Dharma, the one who judges the Dharma, and the one who
understands the Dharma , Those who understand the Dharma. "Complete
cooling", greed makes the cooling state into cooling; hatred...
(abbreviated in the middle) all unwholesome and artificial states have
been quiet, calmed, calmed, extinguished, cooled The state, the state of
leaving, the state of resting is stillness, stillness, calming, cooling,
resting.” For the seer, the completely cooled one.


"They do not follow the control of the devil": "the devil", that is
the kin of the devil, the ruler of darkness, the one who reaches the
limit, the devil, the loose one. "They do not follow the control of the
devil": "They do not turn under the control of the devil, and the devil
does not make control over them, the devil, the party of the devil, the
net of the devil, the hook of the devil, the food of the devil, the
devil of the devil The realm of the devil, the abode of the devil, the
realm of the devil, and the bondage of the devil, they conquered,
defeated, overwhelmed, ended, crushed, moved, lived, moved, turned,
guarded, continued, and survived.” Because they disobeyed controlled by
demons.


"They are not followers of the devil": "They will not be servants,
servants, servants of the devil, they will be servants, servants,
servants of the Buddha, the World Honored One." Because they are not
followers of the devil.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said,


"Those who are mindful after knowing this are those who see the
Dharma, who are completely cooled.


　They do not follow the control of the devil, they are not the
followers of the devil."


At the end of the verse... "Great virtue! The World Honored One is
my teacher, and I am my disciple."


The tenth [completed] explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of
Ge Bo.


Note:
　No possessions, no attachments, this is the island of no further
progress in the great terror storm.
　10/18/2020 16:34
