Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
13. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Uttaya


74. [Venerable Udoya like this:] There are those who meditate, those
who leave dust, those who sit down, those who should do what they should
do, those who have no troubles, and those who have


　all the dharmas. Those who reach the other shore, come with
questions in need,


　please talk about the liberation of complete wisdom and the
destruction of ignorance.


"Those who are meditative, those who are free from dust, those who
sit down": "'The World-Honored One is one who has meditating. With the
first jhāna he is a meditator; with the second jhāna he is also a
meditator; with the third jhāna he is also a meditator. He is also a
meditator; he is also a meditator with the fourth jhāna; he is also a
meditator with a search for and served [ AN.8.63
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=8.63>]; he is also a
meditator with no search and only service; He is also a meditator when
he seeks no-servant meditation; he is also a meditator with joyful
meditation; he is also a meditator with no-joy meditation; he is also a
meditator with walking meditation with joy; he is also a meditator with
peaceful walking He is also a meditator; he is a meditator with
emptiness; he is meditative with no-sign; he is meditative with no
desire; he is meditative with worldly meditating; In the world of
meditation, he is also a meditator, a meditator, a practitioner of a
single state, and a person who values ​​his own interests.” He is a
meditator. “Those who are free from defilements”, greed is defilement;
hatred is defilement; delusion is defilement; anger It is dust;
resentment is dust... (Abbreviated in the middle) All unwholesome deeds
are dust, those dust and dust have been abandoned to the Buddha and the
World-Honored One, their roots have been cut off, [such as] a palm tree
whose roots have been cut off, become non-existent, for the sake of
Things that will not arise in the future, therefore, the Buddha is one
who is free from dust, one who has freed from dust, one who has emerged
from dust, one who has thrown dust away, one who has abandoned dust, one
who has been freed from the bondage of dust (those that do not
correspond to dust), and who has overcome all dust.


"Greed, not dust, is called dust . "Dust" is a synonym for greed.


　After abandoning this dust, he has eyes. Therefore, the victor is
called the one whose dust has left.


　Hatred, not dust, is called dust. "Dust" is a synonym for hatred.


　After abandoning this dust, he has eyes. Therefore, the victor is
called the one whose dust has left.


　Delusion, not dust, is called dust, and "dust" is a synonym for
delusion.


　Those who have abandoned the dust have eyes, so the victor is
called the one whose dust has left. '


is the one who leaves the dirt.


"The one who sits", "The Blessed One is seated in the temple of
Bosha Linggeta. ' for those who sit down.


"When Muni was sitting on the hillside, he had reached the other
side of suffering, and


　his disciples were serving him, the death-breaker of Sanming. [
SN.8.10 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=8.10>]] In


this way, the Blessed One is also the one who sits down. Or, "In a
state where all efforts have ceased, the World Honored One is one who
sits down, one who has descended, one who has practiced action...
(abbreviated in the middle) the cycle of birth and death, without his
rebirth. ' In this way, the Blessed One is also the one who sits down. '
For those who are meditative, those who are free from defilements, those
who sit down.


"[Like this Venerable Uttara]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle). 'Venerable', [this is] the
language of love...(Abbreviated in the middle). 'Udoya', The name of
that Brahmin... (abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is [Venerable
Uttara like this].


"What ought to be done has been written, and those who are free from
afflictions": for the Buddha and the World-Honored One, all kinds of
obligations, what should be done and what should not be done have been
discarded, the roots have been cut off, [such as] a palm tree with its
roots cut off , to become non-existent, for the future not to be born,
therefore, the Buddha is the author of what should be done.


"To those who have not spread, to monks who have cut off the flow,
to those who have been cut off from


　what should be done and what should not be done, the burning heat
is not found. [Sn. 3.11, 720 verses] ]"


"What should be done has already been written, without afflictions":
""afflictions", there are four kinds of afflictions: the afflictions of
desire, the afflictions of seeing, the afflictions of ignorance. Those
afflictions have been abandoned by the Buddha and the World-Honored One.
The roots have been cut off, [like] a palm tree with its roots cut off,
and it becomes non-existent, a thing that will not arise in the future,
so the Buddha is a person without afflictions." As a writer, a person
without afflictions that should be done.


"Those who have reached the other shore of all dharmas": "The
Blessed One is the one who has reached the other shore of all dharmas;
the one who is omniscient has reached the other shore; the one who
abandons the one who has reached the other shore; the one who has
reached the other shore in practice; the one who testifies that he has
reached the other shore; Those on the other side: those who have reached
the other side of all dharmas; those who have reached the other side
with the omniscience of all suffering; those who have reached the other
side with the abandonment of all pollution; those who have reached the
other side by the practice of the Four Noble Paths; those who have
reached the other side with the testimony of extinction; The one who has
reached the other shore is the one who is at ease in holy precepts, the
highest (paramita) arriver; the one who has reached the end; the one who
is at ease in holy liberation, the highest one who has reached the other
side; the one who has reached the other side, the one who has reached
the ultimate (goal); the one who has reached the ultimate, the one who
has reached the end; Those who have reached the end, have reached the
boundary (finally); those who have reached the boundary, have reached
the end; those who have reached the end, have reached the ambulance;
those who have reached the ambulance have reached the refuge; those who
have reached the refuge, Those who have reached the place of refuge;
those who have reached the place of refuge have reached the one without
terror; those who have reached the one without fear have reached the one
without death; those who have reached the one without death have reached
the one without death; those who have reached the one without death have
reached the one without nirvana; Those who have reached Nirvana are
those who have descended into a state, those who have practiced their
actions... (abbreviated in the middle) the cycle of birth and death,
without his rebirth." Those who have reached the other shore of all
dharmas.


"Needs come with questions": "With questions I come needy, want to
ask questions I come, want to hear questions I come." This is the need
that comes with questions. Or, "The inquiries that belong to the
question have the need, the one that wants to ask the question, the one
that wants to hear, [there will be] the coming, approaching,
approaching, visiting of the needy." This is also the need to come with
the question . Or, "When you come with questions, you can, you have
enough reason to tell and answer what I ask, please bear this burden."
This is also the need to come with questions.


"Please tell about the liberation of perfect wisdom": "The
liberation of perfect wisdom is called the liberation of the Arahant
state. Please tell, please explain, please teach, please inform, please
establish, please reveal the liberation of the Arahant state. Open,
please analyze, please clarify, please explain.” To ask you to explain
the liberation of complete wisdom.


"Destruction of ignorance": "Destruction of ignorance, shattering,
renunciation, pacification, cessation of thought, cessation,
immortality, nirvana." It is the destruction of ignorance.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[Venerable Uttara like this:] There are those who meditate, those
who leave dust, those who sit down, those who have done what they should
do, those who have no troubles, those who


　have reached the other shore of all dharmas, If there is a need,
come with a question,


　please tell me about the liberation of complete wisdom, the
destruction of ignorance."


75. [World Honored One: "Yutthaya!"] The renunciation of desire for
desire, both for sorrow,


　and for depression exclusion, prevention of regret.


"Desire of lust": "desire", which is lust, lust, lust, lust, lust,
lust, lust, lust, lust over lust lustful infatuation, lustful grasping,
lustful outburst, lustful yoke (bonding), lustful grasping, lustful
willful cover. "The renunciation of the will of the desire": "The
renunciation of the will of the desire, the cessation of the thought,
the cessation of death, the immortality, the nirvana." It is the
renunciation of the will of the desire.


"[World Honored One: 'Yutthaya!']": "'Yutthaya', the World Honored
One addressed that Brahmin by name. 'World Honored One', this is a
synonym for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym) who
testified, That is the World Honored One." is [World Honored One: "Yuta!"].


"Both with grief": "Worry", it is the unsatisfactory of the mind,
the suffering of the mind, the unpleasant suffering of mind-contact
being felt, the unpleasant suffering of mind-contact. "Both with grief":
"Desire for desire and renunciation of both grief, cessation, cessation,
immortality, nirvana." For both with grief.


"And the exclusion of depression": "'Depression' is a state of mind
that is unbearable, unfit for work, tainted, withdrawn, dull, depressed,
withdrawn, depressed, dazed, and dazed 'Exclusion', and the elimination,
renunciation, pacification, cessation of thoughts, cessation,
immortality, nirvana." For and the elimination of clunkiness.


"Prevention of regret": "Regret", the inaction of the hands (evil
deeds) is regret, the inaction of the feet is also regret, the inaction
of the hands and feet is also regret, the inappropriate is thought
(considered) as appropriate , what is appropriate is thought to be
inappropriate... (omitted in the middle) those who are not guilty are
thought to be sinful, those who are sinful are thought to be innocent,
all such regrets, paths of regrets, states of regret, regrets of the
heart , confusion of intentions, which is called regret. Furthermore,
regret, regret of the mind, confusion of mind arise from two factors:
what is done and what is not done. How does what is done and what is not
done cause regret, regret in the heart, and confusion in the mind? "I
did the bad deeds of the body, but I did not do the good deeds of the
body." He had regrets, regrets in the heart, confusion of the mind; ) "I
have done evil deeds, but I have not done good deeds."... (Abbreviated)
"I have done killing, but I have not done the abstinence from
killing."... (Omitted) "I take what is not given. It was done by me, and
the abstinence of taking without giving was not done by me.”…
(Abbreviated in the middle) “I have done it for licentiousness, and the
abstinence of sexual immorality has not been done by me.”… (Abbreviation
in the middle) “The lie was done by me. Now, I have not done the
abstinence of lying.”… (Abbreviated in the middle) “I have done it, and
the abstinence of the alienated language has not been done by me.”…
(Abbreviated in the middle) “I have done the vulgar language, the rough
language. I have not done the abstinence of evil words.”… (Abbreviate in
the middle) “I have done it with profanity, and I have not done it with
the abstinence of profanity.”… (Omitted in the middle) “I have done it
for greed, not greed is not done by me. I did it."...(Abbreviated in the
middle) "I did it with malice, but I didn't do it without
malice."...(Abbreviation in the middle) "I did wrong views, but I didn't
do right views." He felt regret, regret in his heart , confusion of
mind, such that what is done and what is not done produces regret,
regret of mind, confusion of mind.


Or, "I am not a complete practitioner in precepts." He has regrets,
regrets in mind, confusion in mind; "I am not one who guards the door in
terms of faculties."... (Omitted) "I am not one who knows the right
amount of food and drink. "..."I am not one who specializes in
sobriety."..."I do not possess mindfulness and clear
understanding."..."The four mindfulness, the four right effort, the four
spiritual sufficiency, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
enlightenment factors, and the eight factors The Noble Path has not been
practised by me."..."I have not fully understood suffering, I have not
let go of its causes, I have not practiced the path, and I have not
witnessed cessation." He generates regret, regret in the mind, confusion
in the mind.


"Prevention of regret": "Prevention of regret, hindrance,
renunciation, stillness, pacification, cessation of thought, cessation,
immortality, nirvana." It is the prevention of regret.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[The Blessed One: 'Yutthaya!'] The renunciation of desire, both of
grief,


　and the elimination of grief, the prevention of regret."


76. Mindfulness from calmness Completely pure, thinking of the
Dhamma as the forerunner,


　I speak of the liberation of complete wisdom, the destruction of
ignorance. [ AN.3.33 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.33>]


"Perfect purity of mindfulness from calm": "Peace", that is peace in
the fourth jhāna, indifference, contemplation, stillness of mind,
equality of mind, tranquil state of mind, neutrality of mind state.
"Mindfulness", that is the peaceful mindfulness, casual mindfulness in
the fourth jhana... (abbreviated in the middle) mindfulness. "From Calm
to Pure Mindfulness": "Peace and mindfulness in the fourth jhāna are
pure, pure, totally pure, universally pure, pure, undefiled, free from
defilements, soft, Suitable for work, standing, reaching immovable."
Mindfulness is completely pure for the sake of tranquility.


"Contemplation of Dhamma is the forerunner": "Contemplation of
Dhamma is called righteousness, it is the beginning, the forerunner, it
is the forerunner to the liberation of perfect wisdom." This is the
contemplation of Dhamma as the forerunner. Or, "Contemplation of Dhamma
is called right view, it is the beginning, the forerunner, it is the
precursor to the liberation of perfect wisdom." This is also the
contemplation of Dhamma as the forerunner. Or, "Contemplation of Dhamma
is called vipassana, the precursor of the four realms. It is the
beginning, the forerunner, and it is the precursor to the liberation of
perfect wisdom." In this way, contemplation of Dhamma is also the
forerunner.


"I speak of the liberation of perfect wisdom": "The liberation of
perfect wisdom is called the liberation of the Arahant. I speak, I
explain, I teach, I inform, I establish, I uncover, I interpret, I
elucidate, I explain the Arahant's Liberation." Tell me about the
liberation of complete wisdom.


"Destruction of ignorance": "'Ignorance', ignorance of suffering...
(abbreviated in the middle) ignorance [the fence], the root of delusion.
, Nirvana." is the destruction of ignorance.


Because of that, the Blessed One said,


"From tranquility to perfection of mindfulness, thinking of the
Dhamma is the forerunner, and


　I speak of the liberation of perfect wisdom and the destruction of
ignorance."


77. What is the world's knot? What is it's wandering?


　With what kind of renunciation is this called Nirvana? [ SN.1.64
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=1.64>]


"What is the knot of the world": "The knot of the world, the
clinging, the binding, the defilements, what is the world yoked,
strongly yoke, toward the upper yoke, fully toward the upper yoke, fully
strongly yoke, Attachment, fixation, hindrance." Why is it a knot in the
world.


"What is its wandering": "What is its wandering, wandering, reverse
wandering. What is the world wandering, wandering, reverse wandering."
Why is its wandering.


"With what renunciation, it is called Nirvana like this": "With what
renunciation, pacification, cessation of thought, cessation, it is
called, said, told, said, said, explained, said as Nirvana." For what
renunciation is it called Nirvana?


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"What is the knot of the world? What is its wandering?


　With what kind of renunciation is it called Nirvana?"


78. Joy is the knot of the world, and seeking is its wandering,


　so The renunciation of craving is called Nibbāna like this.


"Happiness is the knot of the world": "Happiness is called craving,
which is greed, greed (complete greed)... (abridged) greed, the root of
unwholesome greed. This is called joy. All joy is the world's knot,
clinging The world is yoked, strongly yokes, yokes toward, fully toward
yokes, utterly yokes, clings, fastens, obstructs by this joy.” For joy
is the knot of the world.


"Seeking is its wandering": "There are nine kinds of seeking: lust
seeking, malicious seeking, harm seeking, personal seeking, national
seeking, immortality seeking, seeking related to sympathy for others,
and seeking to benefit and respect one's reputation. These are called
nine kinds of seeking. These nine kinds of seeking are wandering,
wandering, and wandering in the world, and these nine kinds of seeking
are wandering, wandering, and wandering backward in the world.” It's
wandering.


"With the renunciation of craving, it is called Nirvana like this":
"craving", craving of materiality... (abbreviated in the middle) craving
of dharma. "With the renunciation of craving, it is called Nirvana like
this": "With the renunciation of craving, quenching, renunciation,
cessation, like this is called, spoken, told, spoken, explained, told To
speak is Nirvana." For the renunciation of craving, this is called Nirvana.


Because of that, the Blessed One said,


"Happiness is the knot of the world, craving is its wandering, and
renunciation


　with craving is called Nibbana."


79. How is consciousness stopped for the mindful practitioner?


　We have come to ask the Blessed One, let us hear your words.


"What is to the mindful practitioner": "What is to the mindful,
well-aware walking, abiding, moving, turning, guarding, perpetuating,
making alive." For walkers.


"Consciousness is stopped": "Consciousness is extinguished, calmed
down, goes to non-existence, ceases." For consciousness to be stopped.


"We have come to ask the Blessed One": "We have come, we have come,
we have arrived, we have fully arrived, we have joined you, to ask the
Buddha, the Blessed One, to question, to ask, to ask, Let it be
purified." For us to ask the Blessed One.


"Let us hear that word of yours": "'that', your word, your way of
speaking, your teaching, your admonition, your admonition. Let us hear,
learn, remember, understand, discern." that speech.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"How is it that consciousness is stopped for a mindful practitioner?


We have come to ask the


　Blessed One, and let us hear your words." ,

　so that for the
mindful meditator, consciousness is stopped.




"Feelings within and outside of oneself, those who do not like it":
"On the feelings within oneself, those who dwell according to the
feeling are not happy, unwelcome, unholding, happy, welcoming, clinging
to, clinging to, clinging to, clinging to. , he abandons, drives away,
makes an end, and causes it to cease to exist; he who dwells on the
feeling outside himself is not pleased, welcome, and does not hold on to
feeling, but delights, welcomes, holds on to, clings to, Clinging and
clinging, he abandons, drives away, ends it, and makes it non-existent;
the one who observes the feeling on the inside and outside of oneself
does not like it, does not welcome it, and does not hold on to it, but
rejoices, welcomes, and sticks to it. , clinging, clinging, clinging, he
abandons, drives away, ends, and makes it non-existent; on his own
feelings, he contemplates the Dharma, and those who dwell on the
feelings are not happy, unwelcome, Not clinging to feeling, rejoicing,
welcoming, clinging to, clinging to, clinging to, clinging to, he
abandons, expels, terminates, and causes it to cease to exist; on the
feeling within oneself, follow the dissipating method, follow the
feeling And those who live... (middle abbreviated) observe the
collection and dissipating methods on the feelings within themselves,
and those who abide according to the feelings... (middle abbreviated)
observe the collection methods and abide according to the feelings on
the feelings outside themselves. Those who do not like, do not welcome,
do not hold on to feeling, rejoice, welcome, hold on to, cling to, cling
to, and cling to, he abandons, drives away, makes an end, and makes it
go to non-existence; he observes on feelings outside of oneself
Dissipating method, those who live with the feeling... (abbreviated in
the middle) gather and dissipate methods on the feeling outside oneself,
and those who live with the feeling... (abbreviated in the middle)
follow the gathering method on the feeling inside and outside oneself ,
Those who abide with their feelings... (Middle abbreviation) Observe the
dissipating method on their own internal and external feelings, and
those who live with their feelings... (Middle abbreviation) Follow the
collection and dissipation methods on their own internal and external
feelings, follow One who observes and abides does not like, does not
welcome, and does not hold on to the feeling. He delights, welcomes,
holds on to, clings to, clings to, and clings to. He abandons it, drives
it away, ends it, and causes it to cease to exist. Those who experience
the two types of formations and abide along with them... (abbreviated in
the middle) make them non-existent.


Or, one who regards feeling as impermanent does not like, welcomes,
and does not hold on to feeling. He likes, welcomes, holds on to, clings
to, clings to, and clings to. Those who suffer from suffering, diseases,
tumors, arrows, disasters, diseases... (Abbreviated in the middle)
renunciations are not happy, welcome, and do not hold on to feelings,
but they are happy, welcome, hold on, cling to, cling to, and cling to ,
he abandons, drives away, makes an end, and causes it to cease to exist.
On the feeling of these forty-two kinds of formations, the one who
observes the feeling is not happy, not welcome, not holding on to the
feeling, happy, welcome, Clinging, clinging, clinging, and clinging, he
abandons, drives away, ends, and brings it to non-existence. "For one's
own inner and outer feelings, those who do not like it.


"This is for the mindful walker": "This is for the mindful,
conscious walker, abides, moves, turns, guards, perpetuates, makes the
living." For this is for the mindful walker to say.


"Consciousness is stopped": "Consciousness that goes along with
virtuous actions, consciousness that goes along with non-blessed
actions, and consciousness that goes along with immovable actions [
SN.12.51 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.51>] is
extinguished, calmed down, goes to non-existence, ceases." stopped.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said,


"Those who do not enjoy the inner and outer feelings of one's own self,


　this means that for those who practice mindfulness, consciousness
is stopped."


At the end of the verse... Teacher, I am a disciple."


The thirteenth [Completed] of the explanation asked by the Brahmin,
a student of Uttara.


Notes:
　1. Based on the fourth jhāna, thinking of the Dhamma (= right
intention or right view or vipassana) leads to the realization of the
liberation of complete wisdom (arhat).
　2. Joy (= craving) is the bond (binding) of the world.
　3. Displeased with all recipients (seeing it as an impermanent
suffering tumor arrow...=Vipassana=wisdom) the consciousness is stopped
(=the extinction of consciousness, Ni.18
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni18.htm>,twenty one).
　10/17/2020 10:50
Notes:
