Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
14. Explanation of what the Brahmin asked of the student of compelled sala


81. [Like this Venerable compelled sala:] The one who points out the
past, who does not disturb, who cuts off doubts, who


　has reached the other shore of all dharmas, who needs to come with
questions .


"The one who points out the past": "The one who...", that is the one
who is the Blessed One, the solitary being, the teacherless one who has
realized the truth of the Dharma that he has not heard before, and who
has reached the state of all knowing there , one who [reaches] the state
of being at ease in terms of power. "Pointing out", the Blessed One
points out the past of himself and others, but also points out the
future, and points out the present.


How is the Blessed One pointing out his past? The Blessed One
[points out] his past: he points out his life , also pointed out two
births, also pointed out three births, also pointed out four births,
also pointed out five births, also pointed out ten births, also pointed
out twenty births, also pointed out thirty births, also pointed out
forty births, also pointed out fifty births, It also pointed out that a
hundred lives... (abridged in the middle) a thousand lives... a hundred
thousand lives... many bad kalpas... many calamities... also pointed out
many bad calamities: "There I am such a name, such a surname, such a
Face, such food, such pain and pleasure, such longevity, who was born
there after death, and where I am such a name, such a surname, such a
face, such a food, such a Pain and pleasure, such a long life, the one
who died from there was born here." Like this, he pointed out that many
previous lives had such behaviors and situations. This is how the
Blessed One points out his own past.


How does the Blessed One point out the past of others The
World-Honored One pointed out the past of others: He pointed out one
life, and two lives... (Abbreviated in the middle) also pointed out many
bad things and calamities: "He has such a name, such a surname, such a
face, such a food, such a The pain and pleasure, the longevity, the one
who died there and was born there, and there is such a name, such a
surname, such a face, such a food, such a pain and a pleasure, such a
long life The one who died from there and was born here." Like this, he
pointed out that many past lives had such behaviors and situations. This
is the way the Blessed One points out the past of others.


When speaking the five hundred life sutras, the Blessed One points
out the relationship between himself and others. Past; when speaking of
parables [ DN.14] <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>],
the Blessed One pointed out the past of himself and others; when he said
the Sutra of Great Good View [ DN.17
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=17>], the Blessed One
pointed out the past of himself and others; when he said the Sutra of
the Great General Administration [ DN.19
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=19>], the Blessed One
pointed out the past of himself and others ; When speaking the Ma'adhiva
Sutra [ MN.83 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=83>], the
Blessed One points out the past of himself and others.


This is said by the Blessed One [ DN.29
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=29>]: "Cunda! With regard
to past lives, the Tathagata has remembrance and accompanying knowledge,
and he [can] remember as he wishes, Chunda! About the future...
(abbreviated in the middle) Chuntuo! Regarding the present life, the
Tathagata arises from enlightenment and wisdom: "This is the last birth,
and now, there is no rebirth."


The superior and inferior wisdom of the root is the Tathagata's
power of the Tathagata; The power of the Tathagata is the Tathagata’s
Tathagata’s power to change the mind; the supreme wisdom such as great
compassion is the Tathagata’s power of the Tathagata; the wisdom of all
knowers is the Tathagata’s power of the Tathāgata; Unhindered wisdom is
the Tathagata's power of the Tathagata, so that the World Honored One
points out the past of himself and others, also points out the future,
and points out the present; ' for the one who points to the past.


"[Like this, the venerable compelled Salah]": "'Like this', the
continuation of the sentence... (abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable",
[this is] the language of love... (abbreviated in the middle) "forced
the salad", the Brahmin's The name... (abbreviated in the middle) is
called." It is [the Venerable Forced Salah like this].


"Those who do not disturb, those who cut off doubts": "'Disturbance
is called craving, which is greed, greed (complete greed)...
(abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of unwholesome greed. That
disturbance, craving, came to the Buddha and the World-Honored One. It
is said that the root has been cut off, [such as] the palm tree that has
cut off its root has become non-existent, and it is not a thing that
will not arise in the future. Therefore, the Buddha is a non-disturbing
one. The state of being abandoned is the non-disturbing state. When the
Blessed One is attained, he does not shake... (abbreviated in the
middle) in suffering he does not shake, does not move, does not tremble,
does not tremble (strong trembling), does not tremble much (strong
tremor)." It is not disturbed. " Cut off those who doubt.” Doubt is
called Doubt: Doubt in Suffering... (Abbreviated in the middle)
Stiffness of the mind (stubborn state), confusion of mind. For the
Buddha and the World-Honored One, that doubt has been abandoned and cut
off Cut off, destroyed, cut off, calmed down, cut off from thought,
ceased, unable to arise, burned by the fire of knowledge, so the Buddha
is the one who cuts off doubts." The undisturbed, the one who cuts off
doubts.


"Those of all dharmas have reached the other shore": "The Blessed
One is the one of all dharmas who has reached the other shore; the
omniscient one who has reached the other shore; the one who abandons the
one who has reached the other shore; the one who has practiced the other
shore; Those who have reached the other shore of the Dharma...
(abbreviated in the middle) the reincarnation of life and death, without
his rebirth." For those who have reached the other shore of all the Dharma.


"I will come with a question if I need it": "I will come with a
question in need... (Abbreviated in the middle) 'Please bear this
burden.'" For the needy, I will come with a question.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[The Venerable compelled Salah like this:] The one who points out
the past, the one who does not disturb, who cuts off the doubts, the one
who


　has reached the other shore of all dharmas, and whoever needs it
comes with a question."


82 .The one who has vanished the perception of form, the one who has
given up all the body, the one who


　sees "nothing" inside and outside of oneself,


　Sakyamuni! I ask wisdom, how should people like that be guided?


"Those who have vanished lust": What is lust? The state of
perception, cognition, and awareness of those who have arrived in the
realm of form, or those who have been reborn, or who have been reborn in
bliss, is the perception of form. "Those who have vanished from the
perception of form": "Those who have attained the four immaterial forms
are those who have vanished, those who have left, those who have passed
through, those who have crossed over, and those who have overcome."


"Abandoner of all bodies": "Whoever has abandoned all his reborn
physical bodies, and that part has crossed over, his body has been
subdued by the abandoner of all bodies." is the abandoner of all bodies.


"The seer who sees 'nothing' inside and outside of oneself":
"'Nothing' waits for nothing, and what is the reason for 'nothing' to
wait for nothing? Anyone who enters mindfully Consciousness waits for
the boundless place, and after coming out from there, that consciousness
ceases to exist, disappears, and disappears. He sees "nothing," and for
this reason "nothing" waits for the place of nothingness." And outside,
the seer who "has nothing".


"Sakyamuni! I will ask wisdom": "'Sakyamuni', 'Sakyamuni Buddha is a
monk from the Sakyamuni family.' For Shakyamuni... (Abbreviated in the
middle) 'Those who have given up fear and fear, and have been erected
from body hair.' Also for Shakyamuni. "I will ask wisdom", I will ask
his wisdom, I will ask wisdom, I will ask enlightenment: "What kind of
wisdom should be desired, what kind of wisdom, what kind of
establishment, what kind of wisdom, and what kind of contrast should be
desired. '?" For Shakyamuni! I'll ask for wisdom.


"How should one like that be led": "How should he be led, should be
subdued, should be appeased, should be told, should be made to consider,
should be made to see, should be made clear? How? Because that higher
wisdom should cause it to arise? "Like that kind," like that kind, like
that, that established, that kind, that like, whatever he is to get
people.” for how people like that should be led.


Because of that, the Brahmin said:


"The one who has vanished from the mind, the one who renounces all
the body, the one who


　sees 'nothing' inside and outside of himself,


　Shakya! I ask wisdom, how should people like that be guided?


83. [World Honored One: " Forcing Sala!"] All consciousness dwells,
the Tathagata is the witness, the


　one who knows the existence, the one who overcomes the solution,
the one who is interested.


"All consciousness dwells": "The Blessed One knows the dwelling of
the four consciousnesses because of fabrications, and the dwelling of
the seven consciousnesses through rebirth. How is the Blessed One who
knows the dwellings of the four consciousnesses through fabrications?
This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.22.53
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.53>]: 'Bhikkhus! When
the consciousness is established, it will abide on the clinging
material, the object material, and the standing material. When there is
joy, it will grow, increase, and become full. Or, monks! When standing,
it will abide in] the feeling that is clinging to... (abbreviated in the
middle) or, monks! [When the consciousness is standing, it will abide
in] the thinking that is clinging to... (abbreviated in the middle) or,
monks! When the consciousness is abiding Immediately, you will abide on
the line of clinging, the line of objects, and the line of standing, and
you will be able to grow, increase, and become full by pouring out joy.”
This is how the World-Honored One knows the abiding of the four
consciousnesses through fabrication. How is it that


the World-Honored One knows the abiding of the seven senses because
of rebirth? This is said by the World-Honored One: Bhikkhus! There are
all kinds of beings, all kinds of thoughts, such as: people, certain
gods, and certain people who have fallen into the realm, this is the
first consciousness abiding. Bhikkhus !


There are sentient beings with various bodies and single thoughts,
such as: The Heaven of Brahma who was reborn in the first [Dhyana], this
is the second consciousness


. The heaven of light and sound, this is the third consciousness.


Bhikkhus! There are sentient beings who have a single body and a
single thought, such as: the heaven that pervades the heavens, this is
the fourth consciousness.


Bhikkhus, there is transcendence from all forms and thoughts , from
the extinction of thoughts and thoughts, from not thinking about all
kinds of thoughts [and knowing]: "Void is boundless", to the living
beings in the boundless space, this is the fifth consciousness.


Bhikkhus! [And knowing]: "Consciousness is boundless." When the
consciousness is boundless, this is the sixth consciousness dwelling.


Bhikkhus! There are sentient beings who transcend all consciousness
to the limitless place [knowing]: "There is nothing" and go to the place
of nowhere. This is the seventh consciousness dwelling. In this way, the
World-Honored One knows the abiding of the seven consciousnesses through
rebirth. "Be aware of everything.


"[World-Honored One: 'Forsahara!']": "'Forsahara', the World-Honored
One addressed the Brahmin by his first name. 'World-Honored One', this
is a synonym for respect... (Abbreviated in the middle) Anli (pseudonym)
who testified, the World-Honored One ." for [World Honored One: "Force
Sala!"].


"The Tathagata is the Witnessing One": "The Tathagata is the
Witnessing One, the Other, the Sure Knower, the Perforating One. This is
said by the Blessed One [ DN.29
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=29>]: Chuntra! If the
past is unreal If the past is real, truthful, and not accompanied by
interests, the Tathagata does not answer it, Chuntuo! If the past is
real, truthful, and accompanied If the future is... (abbreviated in the
middle), if the present is unreal, unreal, and not accompanied by
interests, The Tathagata does not answer it, Chuntuo! If the present is
real, truthful, and not accompanied by benefits, the Tathagata does not
answer it, Chuntuo! If the present is real, truthful, and accompanied by
benefits, there, the question for him The answer is that the Tathagata
is the one who knows the timing. Chunda! In this way, in the past, the
future, and the present Dharma, the Tathagata is the one who speaks the
appropriate time, the one who speaks the facts, the one who speaks the
benefits, the one who speaks the law, the one who speaks the law. The
speaker is therefore called "Tathagata".


Cunda! In the world including the gods, demons, and Brahmans;
including the ascetic Brahman, including the generation of gods and
people, everything they see, hear, feel, know, get, What you ask for and
follow your mind, everything has been fully enlightened by the
Tathagata, so it is called "Tathagata"; Chuntuo! Anyone who is in this
night when the Tathagata is fully enlightened will reach parinirvana in
the infinite. In the middle of the night in the Nirvana world, he said,
talked, and showed that everything was the same as it was, so he was
called "Tathagata"; Just like the one who walks, it is called
"Tathagata"; Chunda! In the world including heaven, demons and Brahman;
including ascetic Brahman, including the generation of heaven and man,
the Tathagata is the conqueror, the unconquered, the all-seeing, the
free Therefore, it is called "the Tathagata"." The Tathagata is the
witness.


"Knowing the one who survives": "The World-Honored One knows that it
exists here because of the fabrication of karma: 'This person, through
the disintegration of his body, has been reborn in a miserable world, a
lower realm, a lower world, and hell after death.' Those who know that
it exists here: "This person has been reborn in the animal realm after
death due to the disintegration of his body." The World-Honored One
knows that it exists here because of his karma: "This person has been
reborn in the realm of hungry ghosts after death due to the
disintegration of his body." "The World-Honored One knows that it exists
here because of the contrivance of karma: "This person has passed away
after death by the disintegration of his body." Disintegrated, after
death, you have been reborn in a good destination, a heaven.”


This was said by the Blessed One [ MN.12
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=12>]: Sariputra! Again,
here, after being so familiar with the mind, I know someone: 'Do the way
like that, act like that This individual has entered the path of
disintegration of the body, and after death will be reborn in the
miserable realm, the lower realm, the lower realm, and the hell.'


Shariputra! Again, here, after knowing the mind so much with the
mind, I know someone: 'Like a This individual who walks that way and
behaves like that has entered the way of disintegration of the body, and
after death he will be reborn in the animal world.'


Sariputra! Also, here, after knowing the mind so much with the mind,
I know someone: 'Like This individual who walks that way and behaves
like that has entered the way of disintegration of the body, and after
death he will be reborn in the realm of hungry ghosts.'


Sariputra! And here, after knowing the mind so much with the mind, I
know someone: 'Like This individual who walks the way and acts like that
has entered the way of disintegration of the body, and after death will
be reborn as a human being.'


Sariputra! Again, here, after knowing the mind so much with the
mind, I know someone: 'Like This individual who walks that way and
behaves like that has entered into that disintegration of the body, and
after death will be reborn in a good destination, the way of the
heavenly realms.”


Sariputra! And here, after knowing the mind so well with the mind, I
know someone: "This individual who walks the path like that, acts like
that, has entered into the cessation of all taints, and after he has
testified himself with the wisdom of realization, he will abide in the
liberation of mind without omissions, liberation of wisdom after
entering in the present life."" To know that survivor.


"It is the one who overcomes, the one who is of interest": "The "one
who overcomes" who has nowhere. "The one who overcomes", "the one who
overcomes the liberation, the one who overcomes it there, the one who
overcomes it, the one who overcomes it." The higher one. Or, the World
Honored One knows: this person is the one who overcomes the appearance,
the one who overcomes the sound, the one who overcomes the smell, the
one who overcomes the taste, the one who overcomes the touch, the one
who overcomes the family, and the one who overcomes the group
(congregation). , those who are better at home, those who are profiting,
those who are famous, those who praise, those who are happy, those who
are clothes, those who are eating, those who are living, those who are
sick, and those who need medicine Those, those who overcome the sutra,
those who overcome the law, those who overcome the Abhidharma, those who
overcome the Aranya branches: those who always beg for food, those who
overcome the feces and clothes, those who overcome the three clothes,
those who overcome the three clothes, the order Those who are begging
for food, those who do not receive food after eating, those who are
always sitting and not lying down, those who are living everywhere,
those who are first jhāna, those who are second jhāna, those who are
third jhāna "The fourth jhāna is the supreme solution, the infinite
place of emptiness, the supreme solution, the limitless consciousness,
the supreme solution, the non-thought, the non-ideal place, the supreme
solution." This is victory. The one who understands.


"The one who is in the place of interest", the one who attains the
place of nowhere, the place of interest, the place of karma, the place
of retribution, the one who emphasizes karma, the one who regenerates
rebirth. Or, the World-Honored One knows: this person is the place of
lust. The person... (abbreviated in the middle) is not thinking, not
thinking, and waiting to reach the place of interest." This is the one
who overcomes the solution, the person who is at the place of interest.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said:


"[World-Honored One: 'Forcing Sara!'] All consciousness abides, the
Tathagata is the Witnessing One, the One


　who knows the existence, the One who overcomes the solution, the
One who is of interest."


84. After knowing that nothing has arisen , like this is the knot of
joy, and after realizing it like


　this, then there is vipassana,


　which is his true wisdom: that of the completed Brahman.


"After knowing the arising of nothingness": "'The arising of
nothingness' is called the creation leading to the place of nothingness.
After knowing the creation that leads to the place of nothingness as
'the arising of nothingness', knowing it as 'attachment', knowing as
After 'binding', after knowing that it is an 'obstruction', after
understanding, after measuring, after judging, after separating, after
clarifying." After knowing that nothing has arisen.


"Like this is the bliss knot": "The bliss knot is called immaterial
greed. That kamma is attached, fixed, and obstructed by immaterial
greed. After knowing that immaterial greed is 'the bliss knot', and
after knowing it as 'attachment', it is known as 'binding' ”, after
knowing it is “obstacle”, after understanding, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying. “Like this”, sentence
continuation; sentence connection; sentence perfection; word
combination; Connect; this is the order of the sentence, for 'like
this.'" For like this is a happy knot.


"After this is realized in this way": "After this is realized in
this way, after understanding, after evaluating, after judging, after
distinguishing, after clarifying." After this is realized in this way.


"And then there is vipassana": "'there,' one enters the place of
nothingness, and then comes out of there, vipassana is impermanent in
the arising mental states; vipassana is impermanent; For those who
suffer; for those who are sick... (Abbreviated in the middle) Vipassana
is for detachment, he sees, watches, contemplates, observes." Vipassana
is then there.


"This is his true wisdom": "This is his true, factual, correct,
unconverted wisdom." Because this is his true wisdom.


"Completed Brahman": "Brahman", the eliminated state of the seven
dharmas is Brahman... (Abbreviated in the middle) Those who do not rely
on it can be called Brahman. "Completed Brahmins": "Good ordinary
people, including seven kinds of learning, testify to what has not been
attained, what has not been attained, and what has not been attested. ,
An arahant has completed, what should be done, the burden has been
removed, his own interests have been achieved, the knot of existence has
been eliminated, and he has been liberated by ultimate wisdom. The cycle
of birth and death, without his rebirth." For the completed Brahmin.


Because of that, the Blessed One said,


"After knowing that nothing has arisen, like this is the knot of
joy, and after realizing it in


　this way, then there is vipassana,


　which is his true wisdom: that of the completed Brahman."


At the end of the verse... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher and I am my disciple."


Explanation Fourteenth [Completed] asked by the Brahmin, a student
of Persala.


Excerpt :
　Based on the place of nothingness ( Ni.23
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni23.htm>) to realize liberation: to
emerge from the place of nothingness, to be vipassana on the arising
mental states of being impermanent, suffering, sick..., the realization
leads to nothingness Creation in all places (nothing arising) is the
bliss knot.
　10/21/2020 06:00
註解：


 「勝解者」(dhimuttaṃ)，在《經集》中作「解脫者」(vimuttaṃ, 第1120
偈)，但《勝義燈》(經集的註釋書)以「在無所有處等的勝解者」(Vimuttanti
ākiñcaññāyatanādīsu adhimuttaṃ.)解說，同《正法光明》的解說(Dhimuttanti
ākiñcaññāyatanādīsu adhimuttaṃ.)。
