Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
15. Explanation of the question asked by the Brahmin, a student of Mo'eraja


85. [Venerable Mo'eraja like this:] I asked Sakyamuni twice, but the
man with eyes did not answer me,


　but until the third time, the goddess, "Answered "I just heard
about it.


"I asked Sakyamuni twice": The Brahman asked the Buddha and the
World Honored question twice, but the World Honored One did not answer
the question he asked: "In the middle of that, the roots of this Brahman
will be thoroughly matured." "Sakyamuni", " The World Honored Shakyamuni
is a monk from Shakyamuni's family." For Shakyamuni. Or, "the rich, the
rich, the rich." Also Shakyamuni. For him there are these wealth,
namely: wealth of faith, wealth of precepts, wealth of shame, wealth of
shame, wealth of hearing, wealth of charity, wealth of wisdom, wealth of
mindfulness, wealth of righteous diligence, wealth of spiritual
sufficiency, wealth of roots, wealth of strength, wealth of
enlightenment The wealth, the wealth of the path, the wealth of fruit,
the wealth of Nirvana, these various treasures are the rich, the rich,
and the rich. Or, "Those who are possible, those who can, those who flow
out of all kinds, those who are sufficient, those who are heroic, those
who are brave, those who are brave, those who are not afraid, those who
are not afraid, those who do not panic, those who do not flee, those who
have given up their fears, those who have left the body The one who
erects." Also Shakyamuni. "I asked Sakyamuni twice": "I asked, begged,
begged, and made it purified Sakyamuni twice." Asked Sakyamuni twice for
me.


"[Like this, Venerable Mo Elaja]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle) 'Mo Elaja', the name of the
Brahmin... (Abbreviated in the middle) called." In this way, the
Venerable Mo Elaja].


"He who has eyes does not answer for me": "'He who has eyes does not
answer for me', does not answer, tell, explain, teach, inform,
establish, uncover, analyze, clarify, explain. The five eyes are those
with eyes: the eyes of the flesh are those with eyes, the eyes of heaven
are also those with eyes, the eyes of wisdom are also those with eyes,
the eyes of Buddha are also those with eyes, and all eyes are also those
with eyes.


How does the Blessed One use the naked eye as the one who has eyes?
There are five colors in the eyes of the Blessed One: cyan, yellow, red,
black, and white. [The eye hair of the Blessed One,] where the eye hair
resides is blue, very blue, upright, beautiful, like a linen flower (Sri
Lankan version), the others are yellow, very yellow, golden, upright ,
beautiful, and equivalent to the flower of the winged tree. The two eyes
of the Blessed One are red, very red, straight, beautiful, like a
cochineal, and in the middle they are black, very dark, not coarse,
moist, straight, beautiful, and wet Sapin's of Sapindus, the others are
white, extremely white, white, yellow-white, upright, beautiful, and
equal to Taibaixing. With the physical eyes of the Blessed One, who
belonged to the natural individual and was born of the previous good
deeds, he sees everything for a yojan day and night, even when there are
four elements of darkness: the sunset, the black side [moon] busa, the
dense forest, and the great evil. The black cloud of Nimbus (Thailand
version) appears. In this way, when the darkness of the four branches is
present, he also sees everything for a yojan day and night. No walls, or
shutters, or enclosures, or mountains, or forests, or groves were
obstacles to his vision of form and form. If a sesame seed is marked and
placed in a cart full of sesame seeds, he can select that sesame seed.
In this way, the natural eye of the Blessed One is pure and pure, and
the Blessed One takes the physical eye as an eye.


How does the Blessed One take the eyes of the heavens as those who
have eyes? The World-Honored One sees, with a pure, celestial eye that
surpasses ordinary human beings, when sentient beings die and rebirth,
in inferior, wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate, and unfortunate, he
knows that all living beings circulate according to their karma:
"Respected teachers! Indeed, these beings have evil deeds in the body,
evil deeds in speech, and evil deeds in the mind. They are those who
rebuke the saints, those who have wrong views, and those who hold wrong
views. They disintegrate their bodies and have been reborn in the world
of misery, in the evil realms, Nether, hell, respected teachers! Or,
these beings have good deeds of body, good speech, and good deeds of
mind. They are those who do not rebuke the saints, those who have right
views, and those who hold right views. They have been reborn,skyline. '
In this way, with a pure, celestial eye that transcends ordinary people,
when living beings die, when they are reborn, whether they are inferior,
wonderful, beautiful, ugly, fortunate or unfortunate, they know that all
living beings circulate according to their karma. When he wishes, the
Blessed One can see one world, two worlds, three worlds, four worlds,
five worlds, and ten worlds. world, I can see twenty world worlds, I can
see thirty world worlds, I can see forty world worlds, I can see fifty
world worlds, I can see a hundred world worlds, and I can see These
thousand small worlds can also see these two thousand middle worlds, and
also these three thousand great thousand worlds (Sri Lankan version) [
AN.3.81 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=3.81>]. Or if he
wants to, he can see. In this way, the celestial eyes of the World
Honored One are all pure, and the World Honored One regards the
celestial eyes as those who have eyes.


How does the World Honored One regard the Wisdom Eye as the Eyed
One? The World-Honored One is the Great Wisdom, the Enlightened Wisdom,
the Quick Wisdom, the Great Wisdom, the Beneficial Wisdom, the
Insightful Wisdom, the Skilled One of the Kinds of Wisdom, the One Who
Has Developed Wisdom, the One Who Has Achieved the Unhindered
Understanding, and the Four Fearless. One who possesses ten powers, one
who is like an ox, one who is like a lion, one who is wise, one who can
afford it, one who has boundless wisdom, one who is brilliant, one who
has boundless fame, one who is rich, one who is rich, one who is
wealthy, one who leads , the one who subdues, the one who appeases, the
one who informs, the one who makes it consider, the one who makes it
see, and the one who makes it clear, that Blessed One is indeed the one
who brings forth the unborn, the one who makes the unborn, who does not
declare The preacher of the Tao; the knower of the Tao, the knower of
the Tao, the knower of the Tao, the great virtue! Also, now the
disciples live as followers of the Tao, and later they will be those who
possess it.


The Blessed One is indeed the knower, he knows, the seer, he sees;
the eye-born, the wisdom-born, the Dharma-born, the Brahma-born, the
interpreter, the preacher, the guide of justice , Immortal giver, Dharma
King, Tathagata, there is none that the World-Honored One does not know,
does not see, does not know, does not testify, and does not touch with
wisdom, the past, the future, and the present come to the Buddha with
all the signs of all dharmas in the past, the future, and the present.
In the realm of the Blessed One's wisdom door, any [dhamma] that is
called to be inferred can be known: one's own, or another's, or both, or
in the present life, or in the next, or both. The truth, or the deep
truth, or the hidden truth, or the secret truth, or the truth that
should be led to inference, or the truth that has been led to be
determined, or the truth of the faultless, or the truth of the
unsullied, or the truth of the clear truth, or the truth of the highest
interest Righteousness, everything revolves in the Buddha's wisdom.


All bodily deeds follow the wisdom of the Buddha and the
World-Honored One; all speech and deeds follow the wisdom of the Buddha
and the World-Honored One; all mental karma and the World-Honored One’s
wisdom turn, the Buddha and World-Honored One’s wisdom about the past is
unobstructed; the Buddha and World-Honored One’s wisdom about the future
It is unobstructed; with regard to the present wisdom is unobstructed,
all that should be guided to infer is what wisdom can reach; all that
wisdom can reach is what should be led to infer, what should be led to
infer The ultimate is wisdom; the ultimate of wisdom is what should be
led to infer, beyond the wisdom that should be led to reason, and the
wisdom will not turn; beyond wisdom, there is no way to be led to
reason, these dharmas are limited to each other, such as two boxes The
lids are fully contacted, and the lower lid does not pass over the upper
one; the upper lid does not pass over the lower one, and is limited to
each other. [Similarly,] all that is to be led to inference is that of
wisdom; all that is to be of wisdom is that to be led to infer, and the
ultimate of that to be led to inference is wisdom; the ultimate of
wisdom is to be to be What guides inferences is beyond the wisdom that
should be guided in inferences; there is no way beyond wisdom that
should be guided in inferences. These dharmas are limited to each other.


The wisdom of the Buddha and the World-Honored One arises in all
dharmas, and all dharmas belong to the turning, hope, intention, and
arising minds of the Buddha and the World-Honored One. Knowing the
intentions of all sentient beings, knowing the underlying trends of
afflictions, knowing behaviors, knowing the winning solution
(aspiration), knowing about less dusty, more dusty; Those who teach,
those who are difficult to teach; all beings who are capable and
incapable, including the world of heaven, demons, and Brahmans;
including ascetic and brahmins, including the generations of gods and
humans, all revolve in the Buddha's wisdom.


Just as any fish, turtles, and even boat-swallowing fishes revolve
in the ocean, the same goes for the world of heaven, the world of
demons, the world of Brahman, the ascetic Brahman, and the generations
of gods and humans in the Buddha's life. Wisdom turned around. Like any
bird, including the Garuda of the great descendants of Weina, it turns
around in the void field. Likewise, those who possess the same wisdom as
Shariputra will also revolve in the field of Buddha-wisdom. The wisdom
of the Buddha pervades and transcends the wisdom of heaven and man.


All those wise Kshatriyas, wise Brahmins, wise housekeepers, wise
ascetics, wise dissenters, shrewd breakers who want to do evil deeds in
a wise manner, they are ready The questions were later seen by the
Tathagata, and then they asked about the hidden and secret [Rhythm].
Those questions were discussed and answered by the World Honored One
with reasons, but those who had just abandoned them became the
[disciples] of the World Honored One. 』Glory. The World-Honored One
thus regards the eyes of wisdom as those who have eyes.


How does the World-Honored One regard the Buddha's eyes as those who
have eyes? When the World-Honored One observes the world with the eyes
of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt; those with sharp
roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds and those with
bad deeds; those who are easy to teach and those that are difficult to
teach; some who live and see in other worlds. sinful and horrible [and
others who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds]. Just
like in the green lotus pond, red lotus pond, and white lotus pond, some
green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in water, grow in
water, depend on the water surface, and grow underwater; some green
lotus, red lotus, and white lotus grow in water and grow in water. In
the water, they stand at the same height as the surface of the water;
some green lotus, red lotus, and white lotus are born in the water, grow
in the water, and rise above the water surface to stand without being
stained by the water. Similarly, when the World-Honored One observes the
world with the eyes of a Buddha, he sees those with less dust and dirt;
those with sharp roots and those with dull roots; those with good deeds
and those with bad deeds; The sins and horrors of other worlds [and
others who do not habitually see sins and horrors in other worlds] [
DN.14 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, 69th para.].
The World Honored One knows: "This person is a greedy person, this
person is an aggressor, this person is an ignorant person, this person
is a seeker, this person is a believer, this person is a wise person. '
The Blessed One explained the impurity to those who practice greed. The
Blessed One informs the practice of loving-kindness to those who are
averse. The World-Honored One settled the delusional person in
recitation, inquiring, listening to the Dharma at the right time,
discussing the Dharma at the right time, and living with the teacher.
The World-Honored One told those who were seeking to breathe in and out
of breath. The World-Honored One informs believers about the signs of
self-confidence: the good enlightenment of the Buddha, the good nature
of the Dharma, the good practice of the Sangha and their own precepts.
The World-Honored One told those who practiced Vipassana the signs of
vipassana: the signs of impermanence, the signs of ascetic practices,
and the signs of non-self.


"As standing on the top of a rocky mountain, one can see all the
people,


　similarly, those who are wise and all-eyed climb up the tall
buildings made by the Dharma, and those


　who have been separated from sorrow look at those who have fallen
into sorrow and are conquered by birth and old age.


　Please get up! hero! The victor on the battlefield! The leader of
the caravan, the debt-free walk in the world, World Honored One


　! Please teach the law! There will be (will) those who know. [
DN.14 <https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=14>, paragraph 70]”


The World-Honored One thus regards the Buddha's eyes as those who
have eyes.


How does the Blessed One regard all eyes as those who have eyes? All
eyes are called the state wisdom of all knowing. The Blessed One has,
fully has, attained, fully attained, fully attained, fully attained,
possessing the state knowledge of all knowing.


"There is nothing unseen here (in this world) for him, and nothing
is known and cannot be known, and


　he witnesses that everything that exists should be led to
inference, that the Tathagata is the eye of all. [ Ps.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ps/Ps1.htm>, paragraph 121]" The


Blessed One thus regards all eyes as those who have eyes. "Because
those with eyes did not answer for me.


"And it wasn't until the third time, the gods, that the 'answer' was
not heard by me." "It was not until the third time that the Buddha and
the Dharma master answered the question asked, but he did not make it
go." Understood, it was identified by me like this. "Heavenly Immortal",
"The World Honored One is a god and an immortal." It is an immortal. For
example, "A king who becomes a monk is called a king immortal; a Brahmin
monk is called a Brahmin immortal. Similarly, the World Honored One is a
god and a fairy. . ' for the gods.


Or, "The Blessed One is a monk. ' is also a sage; 'seekers, seekers,
and seekers of the great precepts aggregates' are also sages; , seeker,
seeker" is also a sage; "seeker, seeker, seeker of the brokenness
gathered by the great darkness" is also a fairy; "seeker, seeker, seeker
of the destruction of the great upside down" Also for immortals; great
thirst to pull out the thorn arrows... big see the accumulation of
untie... big slow flags put away... big pretentious quells... big storms
overrun... big burdens put down... The cessation of the great cycle of
samsara...the cessation of the great heat and vexation...the cessation
of the great scorching heat..."The seekers, seekers, and seekers who
raise the banner of the great Dharma" are also immortals; great
mindfulness...all The Great Diligence... [The Great Divine Foot...] The
Great Roots... The Great Power... The Great Enlightenment Factors... The
Great Eightfold Path... "The Great Supreme Benefit of Immortality, the
Seeker of Nirvana, the Seeker, the Seeker ' is also an immortal; 'is
sought, pursued, and searched for by beings of great power: where is the
Buddha? Where is the Blessed One? Where is the god of gods? Where is the
bull king among men? ' Also for the immortals. "So it wasn't until the
third time, Heavenly Immortal, that "Answer" was not heard by me.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"[Venager Mo'eraja like this:] I asked Shakyamuni twice, but the man
with eyes didn't answer me,


　and I didn't hear the 'answer' until the third time, the celestial
beings. 86. This world, other worlds, the world of Brahma, including the
gods,


do

　not know what you see: the famous Gotama.

"This world,
other worlds": "'This world' is the world of people. "Other worlds" are
all worlds except the world of people." This world and other worlds.


"The world of Brahma, including gods": "The world of gods, demons,
and Brahma; including ascetic Brahmins, including the generation of gods
and people." It is the world of Brahma, including gods.





"I don't know your views": "The world does not know your views,
likes, hobbies, opinions, intentions, intentions: 'This is the one who
sees this, the one who likes this, the one who loves this, the one who
advocates this, the one who intends "Those who have such intentions", do
not know, see, see, do not obtain, cannot find, do not obtain." In order
not to realize your view.


"The one who has a reputation for Gautama": "'The Honored One is the
acquirer of fame.' To be the one with fame, or, 'The Lord is the one who
is revered, revered, honored, respected, clothed, fed, sheltered, the
sick require, medicines The gainer of necessities.' And also the
famous." For the famous Gotama.


Because of that, the Brahman said,


"This world, and other worlds, and the world of Brahma, including
the gods,


　do not bear witness to your view: the famous Gotama."


87. Such an excellent seer, who needs it The question comes,


　how to observe the world, the dead king can't see?


"Such an excellent seer": "Such an excellent seer, the first seer,
the best seer, the best seer, the best seer, the best seer, the best
seer." For such a remarkable seer.


"I need to come with a problem": "I need to come with a problem...
(Abbreviated in the middle) Please bear this burden." This is also a
need to come with a problem.


"How to observe the world": "How to observe the world, the examiner,
the measurer, the judge, the distinguisher, the clearer." How to observe
the world.


"The dead king can't see": "The dead king can't see, can't see,
can't get, can't find, can't get." For the dead king can't see.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"Such a seer so excellent, who comes with a question in need,


　How to observe the world, the dead king can't see?


88. Please observe that the world is empty: Mo Elaja! Always be
mindful of the ground,


　after removing my follower, this can be the one who saves the
death, and the one who


　observes the world in this way, the king of the god of death
cannot see.


"Please observe that the world is empty": "world", the world of
hell, the world of beasts, the world of evil spirits, the world of human
beings, the world of heaven, the world of khandha, the world of worlds,
the world of living, this world The world, other worlds, the world of
Brahma, including the [world] of the gods. A certain bhikkhu said this
to the Blessed One [ SN.35.82
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.82>]: "Great virtue!
It is called 'the world, the world', great virtue! What is called the
'world'?" "Bhikkhu! It is the "world". And what is "broken and
scattered"? Bhikkhus! Eyes are broken, form is broken, eye-consciousness
is broken, eye-contact is broken, and whatever is caused by eye-contact
is either happiness or suffering. , or neither bitter nor pleasant
feeling is also broken. The ear is broken... the smell is broken...
(abbreviated in the middle) the body is broken, the touch is broken...
the meaning is broken, the law is broken, Consciousness is shattering,
mind-contact is shattering, and any feeling that arises with this
mind-contact as a condition, whether pleasant, or painful, or neither
painful nor pleasant, is also shattering. Bhikkhus! "The world"."


"Please observe that the world is empty": The world is observed to
be empty for two reasons: because it is not considered by free-flowing
thinking or because of the thinking of emptiness. How is it to observe
that the world is empty due to the consideration of not being rotated in
itself? You can't get freedom in form, you can't get freedom in feeling,
you can't get freedom in thinking, you can't get freedom in mental
formations, and you can't get freedom in consciousness. This is said by
the Blessed One [ SN.22.59
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.59>]: "Bhikkhus! Form
is non-self. Bhikkhus! For, if this form is me, this form will not cause
disease, but will also be obtained in form: 'My form must be like this
"My form is not like this." Bhikkhus! But because form is non-self,
therefore, form causes disease and cannot be obtained in form: "My form
is like this; my form is not like this."


Bhikkhus! Suffering is no-self. Bhikkhus! For, if this feeling were
me, this feeling would not cause disease, but would also be obtained in
the feeling: 'This is what I want; this is not what I want. 'Bhikkhus!
But because the feeling is without self, therefore, the feeling leads to
sickness, but also the feeling cannot be obtained: "My feeling is like
this; my feeling is not like this." '


Bhikkhus! I think there is no ego. Bhikkhus! For, if this thought is
me, this thought will not lead to disease, but will also be obtained in
suffering: 'This is what I want; this is not what I want. 'Bhikkhus! But
because thinking is no-self, therefore, if you want to cause disease,
you can't get it in thinking: "This is what I want; I don't want to be
like this." '


Bhikkhus! The line is without me. Bhikkhus! For, if this line is me,
this line will not cause disease, but will also be obtained in the line:
'This is what I do; this is not what I do. 'Bhikkhus! But because action
is not-self, action leads to sickness, and it is not obtained in action:
"This is what I do; this is not what I do." '


Bhikkhus! Consciousness is selflessness. Bhikkhus! For, if this
consciousness were me, this consciousness would not cause disease, but
would also be obtained in consciousness: 'My consciousness must be like
this; my consciousness must not be like this. 'Bhikkhus! But because
consciousness is non-self, therefore, consciousness leads to disease,
and it cannot be obtained in consciousness: "My consciousness should be
like this; my consciousness should not be like this. '"


This was said by the Blessed One [ SN.12.37
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.37>]: "Bhikkhus! This
body is neither yours nor anyone else's, monks! This is old karma, and
should be regarded as created, created by thought, capable of Those who
are felt. There, bhikkhus! The noble discipleShanruli has heard of the
Dependent Origination of Mind: "Like this, when this exists, that is,
that arises as this arises. When this does not exist, that does not
exist, as The cessation of one and the other are annihilated, namely:
conditioned by ignorance, there is action; conditioned by action, there
is consciousness; conditioned by consciousness, there is name and form;
Feeling is conditioned by touch; craving is conditioned by feeling;
clinging is conditioned by craving; existence is conditioned by
grasping; birth is conditioned by existence; , sorrow, lamentation,
suffering, sorrow, despair arise, and thus is the collection of this
whole aggregate of suffering.


But with the cessation of ignorance and cessation, there is the
cessation of formations; with the cessation of formations, there is the
cessation of consciousness... (Abbreviated in the middle) With the
cessation of birth, old age, death, sorrow, lamentation, suffering,
sorrow, and despair are destroyed. extinction. '" This is to observe
that the world is empty due to the consideration of not being rotated by
itself.


How is it possible to observe that the world is empty due to the
perception of emptiness? The firmness in form cannot be obtained, the
firmness in feeling cannot be obtained, the firmness in thinking cannot
be obtained, the firmness in mental formations cannot be obtained, and
the firmness in consciousness cannot be obtained. Form is the solid
solidity of the constant, or the solid solidity of the pleasure, or the
solid solidity of the self, or the constant, or the eternal, or the
constant constant, or the non-transformation. Feeling... (abbreviated in
the middle) is not solid, not solid, leaving solid; thinking... is not
solid, not solid, leaving solid; action... is not solid, not solid,
leaving solid; consciousness is always solid Solid, or the solid of
happiness, or the solid of my own, or the constant, or the eternal, or
the constant, or the unchanging law. , without solidity, apart from
solidity, and as castor... (middle) and as yogurt bowls are not solid,
without solidity, apart from solidity, and as Shedaka shashu is not
solid, without solidity, apart from solidity, and As the chinshuka tree
is solid, not solid, away from solid, and as foam ball is solid, not
solid, apart from solid, and as blisters is solid, not solid, apart from
solid, and as sun flame is solid, non-solid Solid, out of solid, and as
the trunk of a banana tree is not solid, without solid, out of solid,
and as illusion is not solid, without solid, out of solid. In the same
way, form is solid as ever, or as solid as pleasure, or as solid as
self, or as constant, or as perpetual, or as constant as ever, or as
immutable. , leave the solid; feel... (middle abbreviation) is not
solid, no solid, leave the solid; think... whether it is solid, no
solid, leave the solid; action... is right or not solid, no solid, leave
the solid; The solidity of the solid, or the solidity of the joy, or the
solidity of the self, or the constant, or the eternity, or the constant,
or the unchangeable. This is to observe that the world is empty due to
the perception of emptiness. The world is seen as empty for these two
reasons.


Or, there are six reasons to observe that the world is empty: the
eyes are empty with me, or with what I am, or with constant, or with
eternity, or with constant, or without changing the law; the ear...
(abbreviated) is Empty; nose...empty; tongue...empty; body...empty; mind
as I, or as I am, or as permanent, or as permanent, or as permanent, or
as immutable Dharma is empty; form... (abbreviated) is empty; sound...
is empty; smell... is empty; taste... is empty; touch... is empty; What
I have, is either constant, or eternal, or constant, or not changing,
and is empty; eye-consciousness... (abbreviated in the middle) is empty;
consciousness... is empty; eye-contact... is empty; Mind-contact... is
empty; feeling arising from eye-contact... is empty; feeling arising
from mind-contact... is empty; form-consciousness... is empty;
dharma-thought... is empty; material-contemplation... Empty; Dharma
thinking... is empty; craving for form... is empty; material search...
is empty; Constant, or eternal, or constant, or not changing, is empty,
so the world is empty for six reasons.


Or, observe that the world is empty for ten reasons: form is
abandoned, false, empty, selfless, unreal, murderer, non-existent,
unfortunate root, tainted, active ; Feeling... (abbreviated in the
middle) thinking... action... consciousness... {death} [interesting
place]... rebirth... rebirth... existence (existence)...
reincarnation... reincarnation is renunciation, hypocrisy, Empty,
non-self, unreal, murderer, non-existent, unfortunate root, tainted, and
active, there are ten reasons to observe that the world is empty.


Or, observe that the world is empty for twelve reasons: form is not
a sentient being, not a life, not a human being, not a student Brahman,
not a woman, not a man, not the true self, not what I am, not me, not
mine, not anything. A person is not anyone's; feeling... (abbreviated in
the middle) thinking... action... consciousness is not a sentient being,
not a life, not a human being, not a student Brahman, not a woman, not a
man, not the true self, not what I am, not me, Not mine, not anyone's,
not anyone's, so for twelve reasons the world is empty.


This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.22.33
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.33>]: "Bhikkhus!
Whatever is not yours, you must abandon it! If you abandon it, you will
have long-lasting benefits and happiness. Bhikkhus! And what is not
yours? Bhikkhus! Sex is not yours, you must Give it up! Give it up, and
you will have long-lasting benefits and happiness; monks! If you accept
what is right or wrong, you must give it up! Give it up, and you will
have long-lasting interest and happiness; monks! Think about what is
right and wrong for you. Yes, you must give it up! Give it up, and you
will have long-lasting benefits and happiness; Bhikkhus! All deeds are
yours, you must give it up! Give it up, and you will have long-lasting
benefits and happiness; Bhikkhus People! The consciousness of right and
wrong is yours, you must abandon it! Abandon it, you will have lasting
benefits and happiness. Bhikkhus! Whatever is not yours, you must
abandon it! Abandon it, you will have lasting benefits, Peace. Bhikkhus!
As in this forest, people will take grass, fuelwood, branches, leaves,
or burn them, or do what they want, and you will think like this:
'People take us, or burn them. Do it, or do what he thinks.'?" "Great
virtue! It's really not, what's the reason? Great virtue! Because this
is not our true self, and it does not belong to our true self." "The
same Bhikkhus! Whatever is not yours, you must give up! If you give it
up, you will have long-lasting benefits and happiness. Monks! And what
is not yours? Bhikkhus! Sex is not yours, you must give up It! Give it
up, and you will have long-lasting benefits and happiness; feel...
(omitted in the middle), think... benefits and happiness.”


The Venerable Ananda said this to the Blessed One [ SN.35.85
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.85>]: "It is called:
'The world is empty, the world is empty', great virtue! What is called
'the world is empty'?" It is emptiness. Ananda! What is emptiness in
terms of me or what I am? Ananda! Eyes consider me or what I am
emptiness, form... Any feeling that arises from this eye-contact,
whether pleasant, painful, or neither painful nor pleasant, is also
based on me or what I am, the ear... is empty, the sound... is empty,
the nose... is empty, the smell ...empty, tongue...empty, taste...empty,
body...empty, touch...empty, mind...empty, Dharma...empty,
consciousness...empty, mind-touch ...is emptiness. All the pleasant,
painful, neither painful nor pleasant feelings that arise from this
mind-contact are also emptiness due to me or what I am. Ananda! It is
called emptiness because of what I am or what I am. "The world is
empty." This is also to observe that the world is empty.


"It is purely the arising of Dharma, it is purely the continuation
of actions,


　to the one who sees it as it is, the village chief! He has no
fear. [Thag.715]"


"The world is like grass and trees, when seen with wisdom, [Thag.716]


　no would wish for anything else: in other rebirth-places."


This is also the observation that the world is empty.


This is said by the Blessed One [ SN.35.246
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.246>]: "Similarly,
bhikkhus! Bhikkhus search for materiality, until all the places of
interest are found; He seeks out volitions until all volitions reach; he
seeks consciousness until all consciousness reaches; when he seeks
materiality until all forms reach; he seeks sensations ... (abbreviated
in the middle) think... do... search for consciousness, until all the
interests of consciousness are in time, for whoever is "I", "mine", or
"I am" is not It exists." This is also to observe that the world is empty.


"Please observe that the world is empty": "The world is empty,
please observe, please examine, please see, please measure, please
judge, please distinguish, please clarify." Observe that the world is
empty.


"Mo Elaja! Always mindful": "'Mo Elaja', the Blessed One calls that
Brahmin by name. "Always", all the time...(middle abbreviated) in old
age. )', there are four ways of being mindful: when one is practising
mindfulness of the body following the body, one is mindful...
(Abbreviated in the middle) He is called mindful." It is Moerraja!
Always thoughtfully.


"After I have been removed": "I have seen" is called the view of the
body of the twenty bases. Here, the unheard of ordinary peopleare those
who have not seen the holy ones, those who are not familiar with the
laws of the holy ones, and those who have not been taught in the
teachings of the holy ones; those who are not seen by the good people,
those who are not familiar with the laws of the good people, and have
not been taught in the teachings of the good people. Or , he thinks
thatform is me, or I possessform, or form is in me, or I am in form,
feeling... (abbreviated in the middle) thinking... action... thinking
that consciousness is me, or I have consciousness, or consciousness is
in In me, or I am in consciousness [ SN.22.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.1>], every view like
this, evil view, jungle view, desert view, distorted view, wavering
view, bound view grasps, accepts, clings to Holding, clinging, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the wrong way, the
grip of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grip of the reverse (viparīta),
the grip of the reverse (vipallāsa), the grip of the evil, "in The
unreal is [considered] as the real.” All that comes to the sixty-two
evil views, this is my follow-up view. "I will see you after you remove
it": "I see it after you remove it, eradicate it, pull it out, take it
out, remove it, remove it completely, cut it off, cast it out, finish it
off, make it go nowhere. After existence." To remove me, I'll see you
later.


"This way you can become a person who can save death": "This way you
can save death, you can save aging, you can save death, you can
transcend, you can pass, you can cross, you can overcome." In this way,
you can become a death-defying person.


"Those who observe the world in this way": "Those who observe,
examine, measure, judge, distinguish, and understand the world in this
way." Those who observe the world in this way.


"The king of death can't see": "Death is the king of death; the
devil is also the king of death; death is also the king of death.
'Invisible', the king of death can't see, can't see, can't get, can't
find, can't Get it. This is said by the Blessed One [≈ MN.25
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=25>]: Bhikkhus! Just like
a deer that lives in the forest, when walking in the forest and the
forest, it walks with peace of mind, stands with peace of mind, sits
with peace of mind, and lies down with peace of mind. What is the reason
for that? What? Bhikkhus! That is a realm inaccessible to the
tyrannical. Likewise, bhikkhus! Here, the bhikkhus, after leaving
desire, leaving unwholesome dharmas, entering after entering, abide in
search and service, and from separation produces joy and happiness. The
first jhana, monks! This is called blinding the demons. After killing
the eyes of the demons, Posen enters a state of invisibility and lack of
footing.


Furthermore, monks! The bhikkhus are calmed from seeking and
serving, and the inner Brightness and purity, the single-mindedness of
the mind, [after entering, dwelling in] no search, no attention, the
second jhāna that produces joy and happiness in concentration... (the
third jhāna of the middle)... After entering, dwelling in [no pain or
pleasure, The fourth jhāna, which is made of peace and mindfulness,
monks! This is called blinding the demons. After killing the eyes of the
demons, Posen enters a state of invisibility and lack of footing.


Furthermore, monks! The transcendence of form and thought, from the
extinction of the existence of the thought, never paying attention to
all kinds of thoughts [knowing]: "Void is boundless", after entering,
dwelling in the boundless space, monks! This is called blindness of
demons by monks. After killing the demon's eyes, Bosun entered a state
of invisibility and inadequacy.


Furthermore, monks! After transcending all the boundless places of
emptiness, the monks [knowing]: "Consciousness is boundless", and after
entering, he dwells in boundless consciousness... ... (abbreviated in
the middle).


Furthermore, monks! After the monks have transcended the boundless
places of all consciousness, they [know]: "There is nothing", and after
entering, they dwell in the place of nothingness... (abbreviated in the
middle).


Again, monks! After a bhikkhu transcends the place of nothingness,
he enters and dwells in the place of neither thinking nor non-thinking...


Again, monks! After a bhikkhu transcends all places of
non-perception and non-perception, he enters and dwells in the cessation
of perception and perception. After seeing with wisdom, all his
defilementsare extinguished, bhikkhus! This is called Bhikkhu blinding
the demon. After killing the demon's eyes, Bosun enters a state of
invisibility and lack of footing, freeing him from his attachment to the
world. 』He walked with peace of mind, stood with peace of mind, sat
with peace of mind, and lay with peace of mind. What was the reason for
that? Bhikkhus are unreachable territory for Posen. "Invisible for the
king of death.


Because of that, the World-Honored One said:


"Please observe that the world is empty: Mo'eraja! Always be mindful
of the ground,


　and after removing my follower, you can become the one who saves
the dead, and the one who


　observes the world, the king of death, sees I ca n't see it."


At the end of the verse... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Great
virtue! The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am my disciple."


The fifteenth [completed] explanation asked by the Brahmin, a
student of Mo'eraja.

Notes:
　1. Observe that the world is empty (I or I am empty, SA.232
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SA/dm.php?keyword=232>/ SN.35.85
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.85>) to attain
liberation.
　2. Observe that the world is empty for two reasons: because of the
consideration of not being revolved by itself (without self) or because
of the thought of emptiness (without solidity).
　10/23/2020 15:51
Notes:



