Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
16. Explanation asked by the Brahmin, a student of Binchia


89. [Such as Venerable Binchiya:] I am old, feeble, and colorless,
the eyes are impure, the ears are unhappy,


　do not let me Passed away dully on the way, please explain the
Dharma that I can understand, here is the renunciation of birth and aging.


"I am old, powerless, and colorless": "'I am old,' old, old, old and
old, old age, one hundred and twenty years old since birth. ', the weak,
the less powerful, the less powerful. The 'faceless', the faceless, the
detached, the disappearing. Whatever was beautiful and beautiful before,
that has disappeared, and the trouble has appeared." I am old,
powerless, and colorless.


"[Like this, Venerable Bingea]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence...(Abbreviated in the middle) "Venerable", [this is] the
language of love... (Abbreviated in the middle) "Pinqiya", that one The
name of the Brahmin... (abbreviated in the middle) is called." It is
[Venerable Binqiya like this].


"The eye is impure, and the ear is unpleasant": "'The eye is impure,
impure, impure in all directions, impure white; therefore, I see no form
with my eyes.' Impure. "The ear is unpleasant," the ear is impure,
impure, impure, impure, so that I cannot hear sound with the ear." For
the eye is impure, The ear is restless.


"Don't let me perish stupidly on the way": "'Don't let me perish',
don't let me perish, don't let me perish, don't let me perish. 'Dumbly',
unwise (Rome Pinyin version avidvā), has entered the land of ignorance,
the land of ignorance, the land of non-discrimination, and the land of
inferior wisdom. "On the way", your Dharma, vision, path traces, the
path have not been known, after you have not obtained, after you have
not possessed, If you don't receive it, if you don't testify, you will
die on the way." In order not to let me perish stupidly on the way.


"Please explain the Dharma that I can understand": ""The Dharma is
good at the beginning, good in the middle, and good at the end;
meaningful and written; the holy life that is completely consummated and
pure: the four mindfulness, The Four Right Diligence, the Four Spiritual
Foot, the Five Roots, the Five Powers, the Seven Enlightenment Factors,
the Eightfold Path, Nirvana, and the Path leading to Nibbana, please
explain, please teach, please inform, please establish, please uncover ,
Please analyze, please clarify, please explain. ' To ask you to explain
the Dharma. "What I can understand" is what I can know, understand,
distinguish, know with certainty, penetrate, realize, touch, and
testify. "To ask you to explain the Dharma that I can understand.


"Here is the renunciation of birth and old age": "Here is the
renunciation of birth, old age, death, cessation, cessation of thought,
cessation, immortality, Nirvana." For here there is the renunciation of
birth and old age.


Because of that, the Brahmin said:


"[Vinnered like this Venerable Binchiya:] I am old, feeble, and
faceless, my eyes are impure, and my ears are unhappy,


　do not let me be dull on the way. Perished, please explain the
Dharma that I can understand, and here is the renunciation of birth and
aging."


90. [World Honored: "Pinkiah!"] After seeing it on those who are
annoyed by sex: people who are loose "Being annoyed" in color, Penncia


　! So you become one who does not let go: you should give up color
so that there will be no more.


"After seeing it on those who are annoyed by form": "Form", the four
elements and the form created by the four elements. Sentient beings are
beaten, killed, hurt, and annoyed because of their form, predisposition,
and form. When there is color, various punishments are imposed:
whipping, or beating with a stick, or beating with a cane, or cutting
off hands, or cutting off feet, or cutting off hands and feet, or
cutting off ears, or cutting off Nose, or cut off the ears and nose, or
impose acid porridge pot punishment, or impose shell bald punishment, or
impose Luohou oral punishment, or impose fire wrangling punishment, or
impose candle hand punishment, or impose exorcism punishment, or impose
bark clothing torture, or chamois, or hook, or money, or alkaline bath,
or twisting a door, or a straw-footed platform, or drenched in hot oil,
or bitten by dogs, or The living person pierces the sharp object, or
cuts off the head with a knife, so that all living beings are beaten,
killed, injured, and annoyed. In this way, the beaten, killed, injured,
and annoyed see, see, measure, judge, separate, and clarify. "For after
seeing it on the annoyed person.


"[World Honored One: 'Pinqiya!']": ""Pinqiya", the World Honored One
addressed that Brahman by name. "World Honored One", this is a synonym
for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anri (pseudonym) who
testified, That is the World Honored One." is [World Honored One:
"Pinqiah!"].


"The loose people are 'annoyed' in color": "'They are annoyed',
'they are annoyed, angry, persecuted, annoyed, become sick, distressed.
Annoyed, angry with eye diseases , to be annoyed, to be annoyed, to
become a sick person, to be a distressed person; to be annoyed by ear
disease... (middle abbreviated) by a body disease... (middle
abbreviated) by the contact of horseflies, mosquitoes, wind, sun,
snakes, annoyed, angry, persecuted, and annoyed, Become sick,
grief-stricken." To "be troubled" in form.


Or, "They are troubled when the eye disappears, loses, declines,
dissipates, leaves, diminishes, and disappears... (abbreviated) to
become [patients] ,] Worrying person; in the ear... (abbreviated in the
middle) in the nose... in the tongue... in the body... in the look... in
the sound... in the smell... in the taste... in the touch... at home...
in the group (Congregation)...in abode...in gain...in fame...in
praise...in joy...in clothes...in food...in abode...in sickness, medical
necessities disappearing, lost, declining, When they dissipate, go away,
diminish, and disappear, they are annoyed, angry, persecuted, annoyed,
and become sick and distressed.” This is also “annoyed” in form.


"People" are Kshatriyas, Brahmins, Vishas, ​​Sudras, lay people,
monks, gods, and people. "Less loose", in the evil deeds of the body, or
in the evil deeds of speech, or in the evil deeds of the mind, or in the
five kinds of desires, can be turned up, the renunciation of the mind
does not arise, or the renunciation of the mind does not arise, or the
renunciation of The state of Dharma practice is the state of
non-respectful work, the state of impermanent work, the state of
constant work, the state of being attached to the habit, the state of
neglecting the will, the state of neglecting the responsibility, not
practicing, not practicing, not doing much, not Establish, don't
practice, let go. Any state of letting loose, letting go, letting go
like this is called letting go. People who have these slack as slack.
"To be "annoyed" in color for the loose people.


"Pinkiah! Therefore you become one who does not let loose":
"'Therefore', therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that
cause, when seeing such a fault in all forms." ! Hence you. "Those who
do not let loose" are respectful writers, regular writers...
(Abbreviated in the middle) [those who do not neglect their
responsibilities and] those who do not let loose on good dharmas. "For
Penncia! So you become a no-lose one.


"Form should be discarded so that there will be no more form":
"[Form], the four elements and form created by the four elements. "Form
should be discarded", form should be discarded, form should be
discarded, form should be driven away, form should be finalized, Form
should be brought to non-existence. "In order to cease to exist",
according to this, your form will be destroyed here, and the reborn
existence will not arise; Either in desire, or in form, or in non-form,
or in comprehension, or in non-concept, or in non-thought or
non-concept, or in the aggregate, or in the four aggregates, or in The
five aggregates exist, or in a further destination, or in rebirth, or in
rebirth, or in existence, or in samsara, or in samsara. It cannot be
brought into being, it is here that it can be extinguished, it can be
calmed, it can go to non-existence, it can cease.” It should be in order
that there will be no more abandonment of form.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[World Honored One: 'Pinkiah!'] After seeing on those who are
offended by sex: those who are loose are 'offended' in pornography, Binkiah


　! So you become unrelenting Writer: You should give up color in
order to have no more.”


91. The four directions, the middle of the four directions, the top,
bottom, and ten


　directions, there is nothing in the world that you haven't seen,
heard, realized, or known.


　Please explain the Dharma that I can understand. There is birth
and aging here.


"The four squares, the middle square of the four squares, this is
the upper and lower ten squares": the ten squares.


"There is nothing in the world that you have not seen, heard,
perceived, and known": there is nothing that you have not seen, heard,
or known: your own interests, or the interests of others, or the
interests of both, or when life interest, or interest in the next life,
or obvious interest, or deep interest, or hidden interest, or hidden
interest, or unrighteous interest, or righteous interest, or innocent
interest, or The uncontaminated interests, or the clear interests, or
the highest interests [the interests], they [they] do not exist, they do
not exist, they are not known, they are not discovered. "Because there
is nothing in the world that you have not seen, heard, or known.


"Please explain the Dharma that I can understand": "'Dharma', the
beginning is good... (abbreviated in the middle) Nirvana and the path
leading to Nirvana, please explain, please teach, please inform, please
establish, please You reveal, please analyze, please clarify, please
explain. "What I can understand", I can know, understand, distinguish,
know for sure, penetrate, realize, touch, Those who can testify.” To ask
you to explain the Dharma that I can understand.


"Here is the renunciation of birth and old age": "Here is the
renunciation of birth, old age, death, cessation, cessation of thought,
cessation, immortality, Nirvana." For here there is the renunciation of
birth and old age.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"The four directions, the middle of the four directions, the top,
bottom, and ten


　directions, there is nothing in the world that you haven't seen,
heard, didn't know, and don't know,


　please explain the Dharma that I can understand. Here is the
renunciation of birth and old age."


92. [The Blessed One: "Pinkiah!"] Watching those who have fallen
into craving, tormented and vexed by old age,


　Pennsylvania! So you become a non-releasing one: you should give
up craving so that there is no more.


"Looking at people who are caught in craving": "'Desire' is the
craving of lust... (the middle abbreviated) Dharma craving. 'Deep in
craving', in craving; being followed by craving; being craved Followed;
followed by craving; taken down by craving; overwhelmed by craving,
conquered, taken over by heart. "People" Synonym for all beings.
"Watching", watching, seeing Watching, watching, watching, watching."
For watching those who fall into craving.


"[World Honored One: 'Pinqiya!']": ""Pinqiya", the World Honored One
addressed that Brahman by name. "World Honored One", this is a synonym
for respect... (abbreviated in the middle) Anri (pseudonym) who
testified, That is the World Honored One." is [World Honored One:
"Pinqiah!"].


"Tormented by old age and tormented by heat": ""Tormented by heat",
"born by birth, by heat, by old age, by heat, by sickness, by heat, by
death, by sorrow, by sorrow Despair is born of heat and vexation,
because of the pain of falling into hell, and heat and vexation...
(Abbreviated in the middle), because of the suffering of loss, heat and
vexation, disaster, calamity, disaster." Those who are touched,
tortured, combined, possessed by old age, followed by birth, followed by
old age, conquered by sickness, struck by death, have no shelter, no
refuge, no refuge, no refuge.” Hot for being tortured by old age Annoyed.


"Pinkiah! Therefore you become one who does not let loose":
"'therefore', therefore; that reason; that cause; that condition; that
cause, when seeing such a fault in craving." ! Hence you. "Those who do
not let loose" are respectful authors[, regular authors]... (Abbreviated
in the middle) in the good law [those who do not neglect their
responsibilities and] those who do not let loose. "For Penncia! So you
become a no-lose one.


"You should give up craving in order that there will be no more":
"'Desire' is a sexual craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) Dharma
craving. "Should give up craving." To drive away craving, we should end
craving, and we should make craving come to non-existence. "In order to
be no more", according to you... (Abbreviated in the middle) [It is here
that craving will be extinguished,] reborn of beings do not arise; in
the realm of sensuality, or in the realm of craving, or in the realm of
non-craving, or in the realm of desire, or in Thought to be, or not to
think or not to be, or in one aggregate, or in four aggregates, or in
five aggregates, or in a further destination, or in rebirth, or in
rebirth, or in existence, Either in samsara, or in samsara without
making it happen, without making it produce, without making it arise,
without making it arise, it is here that it can be extinguished, it can
be calmed down, it can go to non-existence, It will cease." That should
give up craving so that there is no more.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"[The Blessed One: 'Pinkiah!'] Watching people who have fallen into
craving, tormented by old age and irritated, Pinkiah


　! So you become a relentless one: you should be in order that
there will be no more Abandon craving."


At the end of the verse, those who dwell in the same will, the same
effort, the same intention, and the same abode as the Brahman, the
dharma-eyes of thousands of beings that are far away from dust and
defilements arise: "Any collection of dharmas is This is the cessation
of the Dharma." And the Brahmin's mindwas freed from the blemishes after
his non-attachment, and with the acquisition of the Dharma eye, the
sheepskin clothes, knotted hair, bark clothes, sticks, long-mouth water
bottles, hair and beards disappeared and became bald , Those who wear
cassocks, hold overcoats, bowls, and clothes, put their palms together
and pay homage to the World-Honored One, and sit down: "Great virtue!
The World-Honored One is my teacher, and I am a disciple.


" Description Sixteenth [Completed].


Summary:
　What to do when you get old? One should give up craving so that there
is no more slack.
　10/26/2020 16:40
