Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
17. Explanation of the praise verse of the other side of the road
　　93. The World Honored One said this, and when he was living in the
temple of Magadha Posha,
　　　he answered the questions asked and questioned by the sixteen
Brahmins who served him.
　　"The World-Honored One said this": "Said this other side.
'World-Honored One', this is a synonym for respect... (Abbreviated in
the middle) witnessing Anli (pseudonym), the World-Honored One." Said
this for the World-Honored One. "'When living in Magadha', when living
in the country called Magadha, acting, turning, guarding, making
existence, making existence. 'When Bosha leads Geta Temple', Bosha leads
Getta The temple is called the seat of the Buddha." This is when he
lived in the temple of Magadha Posad.
　　"To the sixteen serving Brahmins": "Pinkyar Brahmins are the
attendants, attendants, servants, disciples of the Bavali Brahmins, and
Pinkyar and those are sixteen." This is to the sixteen servings Brahman.
Or, "The sixteen Brahmins are the followers, attendants, servants, and
disciples of the Buddha, the World-Honored One." This is also true of
the sixteen Brahmins who served.
　　"He answered the questions that were asked and questioned":
""asked", asked, desired. "Asked", questioned; questioned; asked
begging; begging; making clear. "He answered the question," he answered,
explained, taught, informed, established, uncovered, parsed, clarified,
Explains the problem." He answered the question for all that was asked
and questioned.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"The Blessed One said this, and when he was staying at the temple of
Magadha Posha,
　　　he answered all the requests and questions to the sixteen serving
Brahmins."
　　94 .If you have a question one by one, after knowing the principles
and knowing the Dharma, if you can practice the Dharma according to the
Dharma, you can go to the other side of old age and death
　　　. "The Road to the Other Side".
　　"If you have a problem with one by one": "If you have a problem with
Ayi, you will also have a problem with Maitreya, if you have a problem
with Fulou Nage, if you have a problem with Maitreya, if you also have a
problem with Maitreya. One question for Dudag, one question for Umboshi,
one question for Nanda, one question for Hermagar, one question for
Dudaya, one question for Dudaya, one question for Questions about Ge Bo,
questions about Ruodu Gengni, questions about Bodo Wuda, questions about
Yutuoya, questions about Pusala, questions about those who are also
right Mo Elajan has a question, and if it is a question to Binqiya, it
is a question.
　　"After knowing the truth, after knowing the law": "'That question is
the law, and the answer is the truth.' "After knowing the law", "after
knowing the law, after understanding, after measuring, after judging,
after distinguishing, after clarifying." After knowing the law." After
knowing the law, after knowing the law.
　　"Can follow the law": "He can practice the correct way, the way that
follows the law, the way that is not reversed [, the way that does not
contradict (the way that does not contradict)], the way that it means,
the way that follows the law." Act according to the law.
　　"He can go to the other side of old age and death": The other side
of old age and death is called immortality, nirvana, which is the
cessation of all actions, the cessation of all attachments, the
cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, cessation, and nirvana.
"He can go to the other side of old age and death": "He can go to the
other side of old age and death, can realize the other side, can reach
the other side, can testify to the other side." Because he can go to the
other side of old age and death.
　　"These dharmas can go to the other side": "These dharmas can go to
the other side. They make it possible to reach the other side, to fully
achieve the other side, and to make the complete follow-up reach the
other side. They lead to the liberation of old age and death." Because
these dharmas can reach the other side.
　　"Therefore the teachings of these Dhammas": "'Therefore',
'Therefore; the reason; the cause; It is taught for this other side."
For the teaching of these dharmas. "The synonym is 'the way of the other
shore'": "The other shore is called immortality, nirvana... (abbreviated
in the middle) extinction, nirvana. This is called the way, that is:
right view... (abbreviated in the middle) right concentration.
"Synonyms": name, Appellation, Anritsu, common name, first name, name,
appellation, word, phrase, appellation." To be synonymous is "the other
side of the road".
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"If one can go to the other side of old age and death if one can go
to the other side of old age and death,
　　　"these laws can go to the other side", so these laws can go to the
other side. A synonym for the teachings of 'the other shore'."
　　95. Ayido, Maitreya Dessa, Phulanagar and Maitreya,
　　　and Tudag, Umboshi, Nanda, and Hermagar.
　　96. Dutiya and Gebo, with the wise Ruodu Gengni , as well as
Bodowuda, Utuya, and Pusala
　　　Brahmin,
　　　the wise Moerlaja, and the great immortal Binqiya.
　　97. They approach the enlightened beings: immortals with full
　　　practice, asking subtle questions, approaching the supreme
enlightened ones.
　　"They approach the enlightened one": "they", sixteen Brahmins for
the other side. "The Awakened One (Buddha)", that is the one who is the
Blessed One, the one who exists, the one who has no teacher, who
manifests the truth of his own enlightenment in the Dharma that he has
never heard before, who reaches the state of all knowing there, and who
reaches the state of freedom in power . "Awakened", what does it mean to
be enlightened? The "one who perceives the truth" is the one who is
enlightened, the one who "makes the living perceive" is the one who is
enlightened, the one who is in the state of all knowing is the one who
is enlightened, the one who is in the state of all seeing is the one who
is enlightened, and the one who is not guided by others is the one who
is enlightened. The enlightened one is the one who flows out of all
kinds, the one who has been given a name to the one who has exhausted
all the influxes, the one who is given a name to the one who has no
afflictions, the one who has always been free from greed, the one who
has always been free from hatred. "Those who are enlightened, those who
have always been free from delusion" are enlightened persons, those who
have always been free from pollution are enlightened persons, those who
have passed through the path without fork in the road are enlightened
persons, and those who have achieved enlightenment alone are those who
are enlightened. For the enlightened one, the state of not being killed
is the enlightened one, and the state of the enlightened one is the
enlightened one. "Awakened One", "This name was not given (made) by
mother; not by father; not by brother; not by sister; not by friend; not
by relatives; not by ascetic, What is given by Brahman; what is not
given by God, this is the ultimate liberation of the Buddha and the
World-Honored One: under the Bodhi tree, together with the acquisition
of all knowledge and wisdom, and the establishment (pseudonym) of
testimony, that is, the Enlightened One.” That is the Enlightened One.
"They approach the Awakened": "They approach, see, visit, ask, and
inquire about the Awakened." Approach the Awakened for them.
　　"Sages with Virtues": "Virtues are called the arising of virtues,
and self-control of virtue is conduct; self-control of roots is also
conduct; those who know the right amount of food and drink are also
conduct; specializing in sobriety is also conduct; the Seven Dharma [
MN.53 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=53>] It is also the
practice; the four meditations are also the practice. "The one who has
the perfect practice", the one who has the perfect practice, the one
with the most excellent practice, the one with the first practice, the
one with the highest practice, and the one with the highest practice.
"Sage", the World-Honored One is an immortal, "Great Master" The
seekers, pursuers, and seekers of the precepts are immortals...
(abbreviated in the middle) "Seeked, pursued, and sought after by beings
of great power: Where is the Buddha? Where is the World Honored One?
Where are the gods among the gods? Where is the Bull King among men?" It
is a fairy." It is a fairy with complete deeds.
　　"Asking subtle questions": "'asking', asking, begging; begging;
making it clear. 'Subtle questions', deep, invisible, imperceptible,
silent , sublime, non-theoretical, subtle, and experienced by the wise
and wise." For asking subtle questions.
　　"The Enlightened One who is close to the most victorious": "'The
Enlightened One', 'that is Anli (pseudonym) who is the witness of the
World Honored One... The most extraordinary, supreme, supreme, supreme,
and supreme enlightened beings, they approach, approach, see, visit,
ask, and inquire about.” They are close to the supreme enlightened ones.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"They approach the enlightened beings: the immortals who are
　　　well-rounded, ask subtle questions, and approach the supreme
enlightened ones 　　　.
　　" The answer to the question, Muni satisfied the Brahmins. 　　"The
Enlightened One gave them a thorough answer": "'For them', for the
sixteen Brahmins for the other side of the road. 'The Enlightened One
(Buddha)', 'That is the World Honored One... (abbreviated in the middle)
who testified to Anli (pseudonym) , that is, the enlightened one."
"Thoroughly answer", the enlightened one thoroughly answers, explains,
teaches, informs, establishes, uncovers, analyzes, clarifies, and
explains for them." 　　"The question asked, as it is": "The question
asked, the question asked, questioned, begged, requested, made clear.
'As it is', as it should be explained like that Explain; teach like that
as ought to be taught; tell like that as ought to be told; set up like
that as ought to be established; reveal like that as ought to be
uncovered; parse like that as ought to be parsed; as What should be
stated is stated like that; what should be stated is stated like that."
For the question asked, truthfully.



　　"Answer to the question": "Answer, explain, teach, inform,
establish, uncover, analyze, clarify, explain." is the answer to the
question.
　　"Muni satisfy the Brahmins": "'To satisfy', to satisfy, to enlarge,
to purify, to rejoice, to delight. 'Brahmins' are the sixteen Brahmins
who are for the other side of the road. 'Muni' , Muna is called
Wisdom... (Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending and dyeing the
net, he is Muni." Muni satisfied the Brahmins.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"The Enlightened Ones answered them thoroughly, and the questions
asked were truthful, and
　　　with the answers to the questions, the Muni satisfied the Brahmins."
　　99. They were satisfied by the Eyed, and the Enlightened, By the Sun
people,
　　　they practice the holy life: in the presence of the noble and wise.
　　"They are satisfied by those who have eyes": ""They are sixteen
Brahmins who are for the other side of the road. To be "satisfied", to
be satisfied, to be enlarged to be satisfied, to be purified, to be
delighted, to be delighted. ' for them to be satisfied. "Those with
eyes", the World-Honored One regards five eyes as those with eyes: the
eyes of the flesh are those with eyes, the eyes of heaven are also those
with eyes, the eyes of wisdom are also those with eyes, the eyes of
Buddha are also those with eyes, and all eyes are those with eyes . How
does the Blessed One use the naked eye as the one who has eyes? ......
(Abbreviated in the middle) The World-Honored One thus regards all eyes
as those who have eyes. "For them to be satisfied by those who have eyes.
　　"The Enlightened One, the Sun Clan": "'The Enlightened One
(Buddha)', "That is Anli (pseudonym) who is the witness of the World
Honored One... (the middle abbreviated), namely the Enlightened One."
Ādicco) is called the sun (sūriyo), and his surname is Gautama, and the
Blessed One is also surnamed Gautama.
　　"They do the holy life": The holy life is called separation,
abstinence, abstinence, separation, detachment, non-action, non-doing,
non-offending, non-crossing, and bridge-breaking from unrighteous
Dharma, etc. Alternatively, the holy life is called the Noble Eightfold
Path because of its indifference, namely: Right View, Right Intention,
Right Speech, Right Action, Right Livelihood, Right Effort, Right
Mindfulness, Right Concentration. "They do the holy life": "They do it,
practice it, accept it and turn it into the holy life." Do the holy life
for them.
　　"In the presence of the noble and wise": "of the noble and wise, of
the first wise, of the most wise, of the supreme wise, of the highest
wise, of the highest wise, of the highest wise." In front', in front,
near, near, not far, near." For in the presence of the noble and wise.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"They are satisfied by the sighted, by the enlightened, by the sun, and
　　　they do the holy life: in the presence of the noble and wise."
　　100. To each question, as taught by the enlightened,
　　　Anyone who can practice like that can go from one shore to the other.
　　"One-by-one question": "One-by-one question for Ayito,
one-one-question for Dashe Maitreya... (Abbreviated in the middle)
One-for-one question for Binqiya." It is a one-by-one question.
　　"As taught by the Enlightened One": "The Enlightened One (Buddha)",
"That is Anli (pseudonym) who is the witness of the Blessed One, the
Solitary One... (abbreviated in the middle), the Enlightened One." "As
taught by the Enlightened One of": "as explained, taught, informed,
established, uncovered, parsed, clarified, explained by the
enlightened." as taught by the enlightened.
　　"Anyone who can do it like that": "He can do the right way, the way
that goes along the way, the way that doesn't go upside down, the way
that goes according to its meaning, the way that the law follows the
law." Those who can do it like that.
　　"Can go from this shore to the other shore": "The other shore is
called immortality, nirvana... (abbreviated in the middle) cessation,
nirvana; this shore is called pollution, aggregates and fabrications.
"Can go from this shore to the other shore": "He To be able to go from
this shore to the other shore, to attain the other shore, to reach the
other shore, to testify to the other shore.” In order to be able to go
from this shore to the other shore.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"As to every question, as taught by the enlightened,
　　　whoever can practice like that, can go from shore to shore."
　　101. Can go from shore to shore: when practising the highest path ,
　　　that way is to go to the other side, and like this is the way to
the other side.
　　"Being able to go from this shore to the other shore": This shore is
called defilements, aggregates and fabrications; the other shore is
called immortality, nirvana... (abbreviated in the middle) the cessation
of craving, greed, cessation, and nirvana. "Being able to go from this
shore to the other shore": "He can go from this shore to the other
shore, he can attain the other shore, he can reach the other shore, and
he can testify to the other shore." In order to be able to go from this
shore to the other shore.
　　"When practising the highest path": "The highest path is called the
Noble Eightfold Path, namely: Right View... (Middle Abbreviated) Right
Concentration. 'The Supreme Path', the first, the highest, the supreme,
the first, the highest, The highest path. "When practising," when
practising, when practising, when doing more." This is when practicing
the highest path.
　　"The way is to get to the other side": "The
　　way, the road, the path, the road, the path, the road, the way,
　　with the boat, the bridge, and the raft, the bamboo raft, the bridge.
　　'To get to the other side', to get to the other side, to reach the
other side , in order to fully reach the end of old age and death." For
that path is to reach the other shore.
　　"This is the way of the other side": "'therefore', therefore; that
reason; that cause; that condition; that reason. The other side is
called immortality, nirvana... (abbreviated) extinction, nirvana. The
way (action) is called For the Tao. "Like this", the continuation of the
sentence... (abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the
sentence, for the sake of this." For like this, it is the other side of
the road.
　　Because of that, it is said:
　　"From this shore to the other shore: when practising the highest path,
　　　that path is for the purpose of reaching the other shore, and like
this is therefore the other shore."
　　Explanation of the other shore's path complimenting verse 17
[Completed] .
