Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
18. Explanation of the recitation of the verse of the other side of the
road


102. [Like this Venerable Binqiya:] I will recite the other side of
the road, as he sees it like this. He speaks: those who are free from
dirt, the vast and wise, those who are


　free from desire, and the forest without desire The dragon
elephant, why would Yin say that?


"I will recite the other shore": "I will recite what has been
recited, I will recite what has been recited, I will recite what has
been said, I will recite what has been recited, I will follow Recite
what has already been said.” For I will recite the Dao of the other shore.


"[Like this, Venerable Binqiya]": "'Like this', the continuation of
the sentence... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the order of the
sentence, which is 'like this'. With respectful language and obedience,
it is "Venerable". "Pinkya", that Brahman's name, title, title, Anli,
common name, name, name, title, words, phrases, title." For [ Like this
Venerable Binchia].


"As he sees like this he narrates": "As he sees like this he
narrates, expounds, teaches, informs, establishes, uncovers, interprets,
clarifies, explains: 'All actions are impermanent' As he sees like this
he narrates , explain, teach, inform, establish, reveal, analyze,
clarify, explain; "all actions are suffering"... (abbreviated in the
middle) "all dharmas are non-self"... "any collection of dharmas is
cessation of dharmas" as he See like this he speaks, explains, teaches,
informs, establishes, uncovers, interprets, clarifies, explains." For as
he sees like this he speaks.


"Those who are free from defilements, the vast and wise ones":
"Those who are free from defilements, greed is defilement; hatred is
defilement; delusion is defilement; anger... resentment... (abbreviated
in the middle) All unwholesome deeds are defilements, and those
defilements are detrimental to the Buddha and the World-Honored One. The
speaking has been abandoned, the root has been cut off, [like] the palm
tree whose root has been cut off, becomes non-existent, for the future
unborn. Those who have given up defilements, those who have been
liberated from defilements, those who have overcome all defilements. The
earth is called vast, and the Blessed One possesses the same vast and
extended wisdom as that earth. Wisdom is called wisdom, which is wisdom,
knowledge and understanding...( No delusion, choosing the Dharma, right
view, the World-Honored One has, fully possessed, attained, fully
attained, fully possessed, fully possessed, possessed of this
intelligence and wisdom, therefore, the Buddha is extremely wise.


"Dragon image of a forest free from desires, without desires":
"'Desires', 'There are two kinds of desires from the hymn: desire for
things and desire for pollution... (Middle abbreviation) These are
called desires for things... (Middle abbreviation) These are called the
desire for pollution. For the Buddha and the World-Honored One, the
desire for things has been fully known, the desire for pollution has
been abandoned, and the desire for things has been fully known, and the
desire for pollution has been abandoned. In the state of being cut off,
the World-Honored One does not desire for desires; does not desire for
desires; does not desire for desires; does not desire for desires;
Desires; desires for desires; desires for desires, they are those who
desire for desires, those who covet desires, and those who think about
desires. The Blessed One does not desire for desires; No desire; no
desire for desire; no desire for desire; therefore, the Buddha is one
who has no desire, one who is free from desire, one who has given up
desire, one who has eliminated desire, one who has liberated desire, one
who has given up desire, one who has abandoned desire Those who have
greed, those who have given up greed, those who have no greed, those who
have given up greed, those who have eliminated greed, those who have
been liberated from greed, those who have given up greed, those who have
given up greed, those who have no hunger, those who have extinguished
greed, The one who has become cool, the one who feels happiness, and the
one who lives as the Brahman who has been born." is the one who is free
from desire.


"Those who have no desires", greed is a forest of desires; hatred is
a forest of desires; delusion is a forest of desires; anger is a forest
of desires; resentment is a forest of desires... (Abbreviated in the
middle) All unwholesome deeds are a forest of desires, and those forests
of desires come to the Buddha and the World-Honored One. It is said that
it has been abandoned, the root has been cut off, [such as] the palm
tree whose root has been cut off has become non-existent, and it will
not be born in the future. Therefore, the Buddha is the one who is free
from the forest of desire, the one who leaves the forest of desire, and
the one who leaves the forest of desire. Those who have thrown away the
cravings, those who have given up the cravings, those who have liberated
the cravings, those who have overcome all the cravings. ' For the forest
of no desires. "Dragon Elephant", "Dragon Elephant [and] the
World-Honored One will not commit crimes" is the Dragon Elephant; "Do
not go" is the Dragon Elephant; "Do not come" is the Dragon Elephant...
(Abbreviated in the middle) In this way, "The World Honored One will not
come" is the Dragon Elephant. "It is the dragon elephant who is free
from desire and desireless.


"For what reason will you say vainly": "'for what reason', 'for what
reason? What is its cause? What is its reason? What is its reason? What
is its reason?' For what reason. "To speak vainly", to speak vainly, to
tell, to explain, to speak. , or to the kin, or to the group, or to the
palace, to be brought as a witness and questioned: "Hey! Come, man!
Please tell me what you know." What he does not know says: "I know." or
, what he knew said: "I don't know." What he did not see said: "I see."
Or, what he saw said: "I did not see." In this way, he used his own
cause, or the cause of others, It is called false speech to speak
falsely because it is less tempting.


Or, take three deeds as lies: just before [speaking] [think]: 'I
will speak lies. ' When speaking [thought]: 'I am lying. ' When it has
been said [thought]: 'I have already told lies. ' Taking these three
behaviors as lies. Or, take four deeds as lies: just before [speaking]
[thought]: 'I will speak lies. ' When speaking [thought]: 'I am lying. '
When it has been said [thought]: 'I have already told lies. ' There are
dissent (wrong) views, and these four behaviors are regarded as false
speeches. Or, with five signs... (abbreviated in the middle) with six
signs...with seven signs...with eight signs as a lie: just before
[speaking] [thought]: "I will tell lies . ' When speaking [thought]: 'I
am lying. ' When it has been said [thought]: 'I have already told lies.
' Those who have different views (wrong) views, those who have different
likings, those who have different likings, those who have different
thoughts, and those who have different natures, regard these eight
behaviors as false speech and false speech. For what reason will vainly
speak, tell, explain, speak. "Why would Yin say it in vain?


Because of that, the Venerable Binhiya said:


"[Venerable Binhiya like this:] I will recite the path of the other
shore, as he sees and like this he speaks: The one who is free from
defilement, the great and wise one,


　the one free from desire, the one who is free from desire. Dragon
Elephant, why would you speak vainly?”


103. Those who have given up delusion and filth, those who have
given up ignorance and hidden evil,


　come on! I will tell, with beautiful words.


"Belonging to those who have given up delusion and defilement":
"'Defilement', greed is defilement; hatred is defilement; delusion is
defilement; arrogance is defilement; seeing is defilement; defilement is
defilement; all evil deeds are defilement; all leading is defilement The
karma of ignorance is defilement.


"Delusion", the ignorance of suffering... (Abbreviated in the
middle) the barrier of ignorance, the unwholesome root of delusion, this
is called delusion. Delusion and defilement have been abandoned to the
Buddha and the World-Honored One, and the root has been removed
Severing, [such as] a palm tree whose roots have been cut off, becomes
non-existent, something that will not arise in the future, so the Buddha
is one who has given up delusion and defilement." It belongs to those
who have abandoned delusion and defilement.


"Belonging to those who give up arrogance and hide evil":
"'Slowness' refers to only one kind of arrogance: that is the high and
arrogance of the mind, and there are two kinds of arrogance: self-praise
is arrogance, contempt for others is arrogance, and there are three
types of arrogance. Slowness: "I am the winner" is slow, "I am equal" is
slow, "I am inferior" is slow, and there are four kinds of slowness:
slowness is caused by gain, slowness is caused by fame, Use praise to
make it slow, and pleasure to make it slow. There are five kinds of
slowness: "I really get the desired form." ... touch." To make it slow,
there are six kinds of slowness: the ability of the eyes to make it
slow, the ability of the ear... (the middle abbreviated) the ability of
the nose... the ability of the tongue... the ability of the body
Accomplished... With the adequacy of the mind to make it slow, there are
seven kinds of slowness: slowness, extreme slowness, slowness and
extreme slowness, inferiority, increasing slowness, I am slowness, and
evil slowness, and eight kinds are slowness: To be humbled by gain,
humble by lack, humble by fame, humble by praise, humble by reprimand,
humble by joy Slowness is created, suffering makes it humble, and there
are nine kinds of slowness: the winner thinks: "I am the winner" is
slow, the winner thinks: "I am equal" is slow, the winner thinks: "I am
inferior" is slow, the equal thinks: "I am the winner" is slow, the
equal thinks: "I am equal" is slow, the equal thinks: "I am inferior" is
slow , The inferior thinks: "I am the winner" is slow, the inferior
thinks: "I am equal" is slow, the inferior thinks: "I am inferior" is
slow, and ten kinds are slow: here , Some are based on birth, or by
surname, or by good family, or by beauty as lotus flower, or by
property, or by research (acquisition), or by profession, or by skill,
or by knowledge (academic) , or by hearing, or by eloquence, or by
something to make it slow, whoever is slow like this, thinks, thinks,
pays high, high or low, banner, high, and the vanity of the heart, this
is called slow "


Hidden evil", any situation of hiding evil, hypocrisy, hypocrisy,
jealousy, and jealousy, this is called hiding evil. For the Buddha and
the World Honored One, shyness and hiding evil have been abandoned, and
the root has been cut off. severing, [such as] a palm tree whose roots
have been cut off, becomes non-existent, something that will not arise
in the future, therefore, the Buddha is the one who abandons laziness
and hides evil." It belongs to those who abandon laziness and store evil.


"Come! I will tell, with beautiful words": "'Come,' the continuation
of sentences; the connection of sentences; the perfection of sentences;
the combination of words; the connection of words; this is the sequence
of sentences, for 'Come Let's go". "I will speak, have beautiful words",
have, fully have, reach, fully reach, fully, fully, have beautiful
words, words, ways of speaking, words, I will tell, I will teach, I will
will inform, I will build, I will uncover, I will parse, I will
elucidate, I will explain." For come! I will tell, with beautiful words.


Because of that, the Venerable Binhiya said,


"Those who have given up delusion and filth, those who have given up
ignorance and hidden evil,


　come! I will speak with beautiful words."


104. Those who dispel darkness, awakening The one, the one with all
eyes, the one who has reached the edge of the world, the one who
transcends all beings, the one who has


　no troubles, the one who abandons all suffering, the one who truly
calls it, Brahman! served by me.


"The one who dispels the darkness, the enlightened one, the one who
sees all eyes": "The one who dispels the darkness, the darkness of
greed, the darkness of hatred, the darkness of delusion, the darkness of
slowness, the darkness of seeing, the darkness of pollution, the
darkness of evil deeds, the darkness of blindness Doing [, not being an
eye], not being a destroyer of wisdom, wisdom, an afflicted companion,
not leading to Nirvana, he eliminates, removes, abandons, drives away,
ends, and brings it to non-existence. "Awakened One", "That is the World
Honored One... (Abbreviated) Anli (pseudonym) who testifies, namely the
Awakened One." All eyes are called the state of knowledge of all
knowing... (Abbreviated) Tathagata is the one who is all eyes because of
that." In order to dispel the darkness The Awakened, the Awakened, the
All-Eye.


"Those who have reached the edge of the world, surpass all beings":
"'World', one world: the world of existence, two worlds: the world of
existence and the world of becoming; Destruction of the world and the
destruction of the lost world. The three worlds: the three perceptions.
The fourth world: the four food. The fifth world: the five aggregates of
clinging. The sixth world: the six inner places. The Dharma of the
Eighth World). The Nine Worlds: the abodes of the nine sentient beings.
The Ten Worlds: The Ten Worlds. The Twelve Worlds: The Twelve Worlds.
The Eighteen Worlds: The Eighteen Worlds. The one who has reached the
edge, the one who has reached the end; the one who has reached the
end...the one who has reached Nirvana; the one who has reached Nirvana,
he is one who has descended into a state, one who has practiced
action...the cycle of birth and death, without his rebirth." For those
who have reached the edge of the world.


"Beyond all existence", "existence", there are two kinds of
existence: karmic existence and rebirth. What is karmic existence?
Blessed behavior, non-blessed behavior, and immovable behavior, this is
karmic existence. What is rebirth and rebirth? The form, feeling,
perception, formation, and consciousness of rebirth are rebirth and
rebirth. The World-Honored One is the transcendence of karma and
rebirth, the one who has passed through, and the one who has overcome.”
For those who have reached the edge of the world, beyond all beings.


"Those who have no afflictions, those who give up all suffering":
"There are four kinds of afflictions: the afflictions of desire, the
afflictions, the afflictions of seeing, and the afflictions of
ignorance. Those afflictions have been abandoned by the Buddha and the
World-Honored One, and their roots have been eliminated. Being cut off,
[like] a palm tree that has been cut off from its roots, becomes
non-existent, something that will not be born in the future, so the
Buddha is a person without affliction. "The one who renounces all
suffering", for him all belongs to the suffering of rebirth , suffering
of old age, suffering of sickness, suffering of death, suffering of
sorrow, suffering, despair, suffering... (Abbreviated in the middle) the
suffering of the decay of seeing has been abandoned, cut off, calmed
down, stopped, unable to arise, and burned by the fire of wisdom.
Therefore, the Buddha It is the one who renounces all suffering." For
the one who has no afflictions, the one who renounces all suffering.


"Real caller, Brahmin! I serve": "'True caller', "true caller,
equivalent name, equivalent caller, true equivalent caller, Lord
Vipassi, Lord Shiji, Lord Vishava , World Honored Kolousun, World
Honored Konaham, World Honored Kasyapa, those Buddhas and World Honored
are those who have the same name and the same name, and the World
Honored Sakyamuni belongs to those Buddhas, the World Honored One is the
same name, and the same name.” Therefore, the Buddha is real caller.


"Brahman! Served by Me': That Blessed One is relied upon, served,
worshipped, questioned, and questioned by me. ' is the true caller,
Brahmin! served by me.


Because of that, Venerable Binhiya said:


"The one who dispels darkness, the enlightened one, the one who has
all eyes, the one who has reached the edge of the world, the one who
transcends all beings, the one who has


　no afflictions, the one who abandons all suffering, the one who is
truly called, Brahman! Serving."


105. If a bird abandons a grove, it will live in a fruitful forest,


　like this, after I abandon the rare, I am like a geese that has
reached the great lake.


"If a bird abandons a grove, it will live in a fruit-bearing
forest": "'A bird (twice) is called a bird (winged), and for what reason
is it called a winged bird? "Born twice" means the two-born: "From the
mother's womb and from the eggshell, for this reason is called the
winged one." For the bird (twice-born). "Behind the woods", like birds,
small forests with few fruits, little food, and little water, small
forests abandoned, abandoned, overtaken, overtaken, overpassed, will
get, will find, will get other fruity ones A large forest, a dense
forest, rich in food and water, will build a dwelling in that dense
forest.” After abandoning a grove to be like a bird, he will live in a
forest rich in fruit.


"After I abandon the rare things like this, I am like a goose that
has reached the great lake": "'Like this' is a metaphorical arrangement.
After abandoning the rare things, the Vambavali Brahmins and other Ajani
are compared with the Buddha and the World-Honored One. The rare, the
insignificant see, the little see, the lower see, the inferior see, the
non-supreme see, those who are rare, those who see insignificant, those
who see a little, those who see less, those who see inferior, those who
are not the highest seeing : Infinite seeers, top seers, no equals, no
complete and no equals, no comparisons, no analogies, incomparables,
heaven in heaven, bull king in people, lion in people, dragon in people
The elephant, the virtuous man, the bull king among men, the tolerant
bull among men, and the keeper of ten powers. Such as the goose will
get, will find, will get the big man-made (Thai version), or the Anuta
Pond, or the unshakable, immeasurable water collection of the great
lake. In the same way, the Buddha and the World-Honored One are the
unshakable, the immeasurable radiance, the developed wisdom, the
clear-eyed, the skillful in the type of wisdom, the unobstructed
understanding, the four fearless ones, the pure aspiration, the pure and
pure , those who say nothing, those who are like that, those who claim
to be like that, those who are not small, those who are great, those who
are profound, those that cannot be measured, those who are difficult to
penetrate, those who have great treasures, those who are equal to the
ocean, those who possess the six branches of peace, those who haveno The
comparable, the vast, the immeasurable, he is the one who speaks like
that, the one who speaks the Tao, like Mount Sumeru in the mountains,
like the Garuda in the birds, like the lions in the beasts, like the
rivers reaching the sea, he is. Master, winner, top performer, great
immortal. "For like this, after I have abandoned the rare ones, I have
reached the great lake like a goose.


Because of that, His Excellency Binchia said,


"As a bird will live in a fruitful forest after abandoning a grove,


　like a geese who have reached a great lake after abandoning the
rare ones."


106. As they told me before, Before Gautama's admonition: like this
that was, like this and that will be,


　it's all hearsay, it's all augmentation of theory.


"Everything they told me before": "'Everything,' the Vambavali
Brahmins and every other ajali, they explain, explain, teach, inform,
establish, unravel, interpret, clarify, explain those own views, their
own my likes, my hobbies, my own opinions, my own intentions, my own
intentions.” For what they told me before.


"Before Gautama's teaching": "Before Gautama's teaching, on the
other side of Gautama's teaching, before Gautama's teaching; before
Gautama's teaching, Buddha's teaching The admonition, the admonition of
the victor, the admonition of the Tathagata, the beginning of the
admonition of the Arahant." Before the admonition of Gautama.


"Like this that was, like this that will be": "It is said that it is
like this, it is said that it will be like this." For like this that
was, like this that would be.


"It's all hearsay": "It's all hearsay, hearsay, lineage, the
teachings of scriptures, logical deductions, reasoning, contemplation of
theories, opinions received after contemplation, they speak not by
themselves, not by themselves. The proven law.” Because it’s all rumors.


"It's all an increase in theory": "It's all an increase in theory,
an increase in questing, an increase in thinking, an increase in lust,
an increase in malicious questing, an increase in injurious questing,
and the increase in self-seeking. The increase of the quest of the land,
the increase of the quest of immortality, the increase of the quest of
sympathy for others, the increase of the quest of honor and honor, the
increase of the quest of not being despised.” Because that's all
theoretical augmentation.


Because of that, His Excellency Binchia said:


"Everything they told me before, before the teaching of Gautama:
like this that was, like this that will be,


　that's all rumor, that's all theoretical augmentation .”


107. The one who is alone, the one who dispels the darkness, the one
who sits down, he is the one who shines, the author of light,


　Gautama is the one who is wise, and Gautama is the one who is vast
and wise.


"The one who is alone, the one who dispels the darkness, the one who
sits down": ""Alone," the Blessed One is alone in the name of
renunciation, alone in the righteousness of being without a partner,
alone in the righteousness of renunciation of craving, and "always free
from greed". , "Always freed from hatred" is alone, "Always freed from
delusion" is alone, "Always free from pollution" is alone, "Having
passed the path without fork in the road" is alone, "Having attained
full enlightenment and supreme enlightenment" is alone.


How is it that the World Honored One is alone in the name of being a
monk? When the World Honored One was young, the black-haired youth
possessed the happiness of youth. In the early stages of life, even if
the parents were reluctant, tearful, weeping, and lamenting, they still
gave up For the relative group, after cutting off all obstacles at home,
after cutting off the obstacles of children and wives, after cutting off
the obstacles of kinship, after cutting off the obstacles of friends [,
after cutting off the obstacles of storage], after shaving the hair and
beard, after wrapping the cassock clothes, from To become a homeless
person after becoming a homeless person, after entering a state of
nothingness, walk, live, move, turn around, protect, sustain, and
survive. This is


how the Blessed One is alone in the name of renunciation. ? When he
ordained in this way, he used the forest, the wild forest, and the
frontier dwellings (reclining places) alone: ​​quiet, quiet, away from
the atmosphere of people, living alone, suitable for sitting alone; he
[walks alone, ] Walk alone, stand alone, sit alone, lie down alone,
enter the village alone for the sake of alms, advance alone, return
alone, sit alone in a quiet place, walk alone, walk alone, stay, move,
turn around, guard, keep alive , to survive. This is the Blessed One who
is alone in righteousness without a partner.


What is the Blessed One who is alone in the righteousness of
renunciation of craving? He is so alone and without a partner, he should
abide in unrelenting, zealous, self-effort, in Niren Chan Under the
linden tree by the river, great diligence and diligence, after
destroying the demons accompanied by the army, the evil demons, and the
relatives of the loose, the netted, strong flowing, entangled cravings
will be abandoned, driven away, and ended. , to bring it to non-existence.


"Those who crave as a partner have been in samsara for a long time. In


　this state and other states, he does not transcend samsara.


　After knowing such a disaster: craving is the origin of suffering,


　renunciation of thirst Love, non-attachment, bhikkhus should walk
mindfully.” [ It.15
<https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=15>/Sn.3.12, 745-746 verse]


Thus is the Blessed One who renounces the righteousness of craving
as his own.


How is it that the World Honored One takes "always free from greed"
as his own? "Let one of the states of renunciation of greed go toward
liberation from greed" as independence, "with one of the states of
renunciation of hatred toward liberation from hatred" as independence,
"with one of the states of renunciation of delusion toward liberation
from delusion" as independence, "with one of the states of renunciation
of ignorance toward liberation from delusion", One of the disconnected
states is to be unpolluted" as alone. [In this way, the Blessed One
takes "always free from greed" as his own. ]


How is it that the Blessed One has "passed the path without fork in
the road" to be alone? The path without fork in the road is called the
Four Mindfulness... (abbreviated in the middle) the Eightfold Noble Path.


"Those who see the extinction of life, those who have pity, know the
path without fork in the road,


　by which they crossed the storm before, and whatsoever they will
pass, and now pass through (to be and now). 』[ SN.47.18
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=47.18>] In


this way the Blessed One "has passed the path without fork in the
road" for himself.


What does the World-Honored One mean by "alone who has attained full
enlightenment and the supreme enlightenment" as being alone?
Enlightenment is called wisdom in the four realms, wisdom root, wisdom
power, dharma-choosing enlightenment factor, investigation, vipassana,
and right view. With that awareness, the World-Honored One perceives
that "all actions are impermanent"; "all actions are suffering"; "all
dharmas are non-self"... (abbreviated in the middle) "all dharmas are
cessation of dharmas". Or, whatever should be realized, should be
realized, should be awakened, should be realized, should be realized,
should be touched, should be attested, everything is realized by that
awareness. , Awareness, Awakening, Enlightenment, Realization, Touch,
Testimony. In this way, the Blessed One "has achieved full enlightenment
by himself" as being alone.


"The one who drives away the darkness", the darkness of greed, the
darkness of hatred, the darkness of delusion, the darkness of seeing,
the darkness of pollution, the darkness of evil deeds, the blindness of
action, the blindness of eyes, the darkness of wisdom, the destroyer of
wisdom , Annoying companion, not leading to Nirvana, the Blessed One has
eliminated, removed, abandoned, abandoned, driven away, brought to an
end, brought it to non-existence. "The one who sits", "The Blessed One
is seated in the temple of Bosha Linggeta. ' for those who sit down.


"When Muni was sitting on the hillside, he had reached the other
side of suffering, and


　his disciples were serving him, the death-breaker of Sanming. [
SN.8.10 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=8.10>]] In


this way, the Blessed One is also the one who sits down. Or, "In a
state where all efforts have ceased, the World Honored One is one who
sits down, one who has descended, one who has practiced action...
(abbreviated in the middle) the cycle of birth and death, without his
rebirth. ' In this way, the Blessed One is also the one who sits down.
"For the loner, the darkness dispeller, the seated one.


"He is the radiant, the author of light": "The radiant one is the
wise, the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the wise.
The 'author of the light', The author of light is the one who gives
light, the author of light, the one who lights the lamp, the author of
light, the author of light, the author of light.” For he is the one who
shines, the author of light.


"Gautama is the one of broad wisdom": "Gautama is the one who marks
the vastness (the one who is broad-wisdom), the one who is the sign of
wisdom, the one who is wisdom as the banner, the one who is wisdom as
the banner, the one who increases wisdom, and the one who chooses many ,
those who choose more, those who think deeply, those who think deeply
about the nature, those who dwell in the clear, those who are more of
that character, those who value that, those who take that as their
object, those who strive towards that, those who lean towards that,
those who are inclined towards that The conqueror, the one who ascends .


"The flag is the sign of the chariot, the smoke is the sign of the
fire, the


　king is the sign of the state, the husband is the sign of the
woman. [ SN.1.72 <https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=1.72>]"


Likewise, Gautama is the sign of the great Markers (Wise Wisdom),
Wisdom Markers, Wisdom Banners, Wisdom Banners, Wisdom Enhancers, Chosen
Ones, Simple Chosen Ones, Contemplative Ones, Wholehearted
Contemplations, Lives in The one who understands, the one who has the
character, the one who is more of that, the one who values ​​that, the
one who takes that as the object, the one who strives for that, the one
who leans toward that, the one who overcomes, the one who increases." wise.


"Gautama is a vast and wise man": "The earth is called vast, and the
World-Honored One possesses wisdom that is as vast and extended as that
earth. Wisdom is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... Right view. The Blessed One has, fully possesses,
attained, fully attained, fully possessed, fully possessed, possessed of
this wisdom [, wisdom], so the Buddha is a very wise one." For Gotama is
a great wise man. Because of that


, the Venerable Binchia said, "He who is alone, who

dispels


darkness, who sits down, is the one who shines, who is the author of
light


　. He taught the Dharma for me: the immediate, the immediate,


　the quenching of craving, the calamity-free, there is no metaphor
for that anywhere.

"The one who taught the Dhamma for me": "The one
who is the one who is the Blessed One, the only one who has no teacher,
who has realized the truth of the Dhamma that he has never heard before,
and who has reached the state of all knowledge and the Those who are in
a state of freedom in terms of strength. "Teaching the Dharma",
"Dharma", the beginning is good, the middle is good, the end is good;
meaningful, with words; fully consummated and pure holy life: the four
mindfulness...( The Noble Eightfold Path, Nirvana, and the path leading
to Nirvana, he explained, taught, informed, established, revealed,
analyzed, explained, explained." He taught the Dhamma for me.


"Directly visible, immediate": "'Directly visible, immediate, asking
you to see, guiding, and worthy of being experienced by the wise.' This
is directly visible. Or, 'He is practising in his life With the Noble
Eightfold Path, he will realize that path continuously and immediately,
and he will find and obtain the fruit.” This is also directly visible.
“Instant”, such as when people give money at a certain time, [the
retribution] they are not continuous They wait for the time to get it.
The Dharma is really not this. Anyone who practices the eightfold holy
path in the current life will realize that path without interruption and
immediately. When he finds and obtains the fruit, it is not in another
place (the next life), not in other places. In other worlds (afterlife),
it is immediate." is directly visible, immediate.






"Desire of craving, no disaster": "'Desire of craving', craving of
lust... (Abbreviated in the middle) craving of Dharma. , the cessation
of hatred, the cessation of delusion, the cessation of the place of
interest, the cessation of rebirths, the cessation of rebirths, the
cessation of some, the cessation of samsara, the cessation of samsara.
The aggregates and fabrications are called calamities, the renunciation
of calamities, the cessation of calamities, the cessation of calamities,
the cessation of calamities, immortality, nirvana." It is the cessation
of cravings and the absence of calamities.


"There is no metaphor for that anywhere": "'for that', for Nirvana.
'No metaphor', no metaphor, no comparison, no equivalent, no
resemblance, it does not exist, Not to be known, not to be discovered.
'Wherever', wherever, wherever, in or out of itself or out." For that
there is no metaphor for wherever.


Because of that, His Excellency Bingeia said:


"He who teaches for me: the immediate, the immediate,


　the quenching of craving, the calamity-free, for whom there is no
metaphor anywhere."


109. Why You stay away from that one, Pennsylvania! Even for a moment:


　from the wise from Gautama, from the wise from Gautama?


"Why did you stay away from (stay away from home) the One": "Why did
you stay away from, leave, leave, leave the Buddha." Why did you stay
away from the One.


"Penkiah! Even for a moment": "Even for a moment, even for an
instant, even for a moment, even for part of the time, even for half a
day." For even a moment. "Pinkiah," Bavali.


"From the great wisdom of Gautama": "From the vastness of Gautama as
the sign (the broad wisdom), from the wisdom as the sign, from the
wisdom as the banner, from the wisdom as the flag, from the wisdom as
the ascendant , from the one who chooses much, from the one who chooses
much, from the one who thinks deeply, from the one who fully considers
the nature, from the one who dwells in comprehension, from the one who
is characterized by that, from the one who emphasizes on that, from the
one who takes that as the object , from the one who strives, from the
one who leans on that, from the one who overcomes, from the one who
increases." For the wise man from Gautama.


"From the vast and wise man of Gautama": "The earth is called broad,
and the World-Honored One possesses wisdom that is as vast and extended
as that earth. Wisdom is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the Dharma Right view. The Blessed One has, fully possesses, attained,
fully attained, fully attained, fully attained, possessed of this
wisdom, wisdom, and therefore, the Buddha is a very wise man.” For the
vast wise man from Gautama.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"Why do you stay away from the one, Binchia! Even for a moment:


　from the wise one of Gautama, from the great wise one of Gautama?"


110. He teaches the Dhamma for you: directly visible


　There is no metaphor for that, anywhere .


"He teaches the Dharma for you": "['He',] that is the Blessed One...
(abbreviated in the middle) who attains the state of all knowledge and
the state of freedom in power. 'Teaching Dharma', 'Dharma', at the
beginning What is good, what is in the middle is good... (abbreviated in
the middle) Nirvana and the path leading to Nirvana, he explains,
teaches, informs, establishes, uncovers, analyzes, clarifies, explains."
He teaches the Dharma for you.


"Directly visible, immediate": "'Directly visible, immediate, asking
you to see, guiding, and worthy of being experienced by the wise.' This
is directly visible. Or, 'He is practising in his life With the Noble
Eightfold Path, he will realize that path continuously and immediately,
and he will find and obtain the fruit.” This is also directly visible.
“Instant”, such as when people give money at a certain time, [the
retribution] they are not continuous They wait for the time to get it.
The Dharma is really not this. Anyone who practices the eightfold holy
path in the current life will realize that path without interruption and
immediately. When he finds and obtains the fruit, it is not in another
place (the next life), not in other places. In other worlds (afterlife),
it is immediate." is directly visible, immediate.


"Desire of craving, no disaster": "'Desire of craving', craving of
lust... (Abbreviated in the middle) craving of Dharma. , the cessation
of hatred, the cessation of delusion, the cessation of the place of
interest, the cessation of rebirths, the cessation of rebirths, the
cessation of some, the cessation of samsara, the cessation of samsara.
The aggregates and fabrications are called calamities, the renunciation
of calamities, the cessation of calamities, the cessation of calamities,
immortality, nirvana." It is the cessation of cravings and the absence
of calamities.


"There is no metaphor for that anywhere": "'for that', for Nirvana.
'No metaphor', no metaphor, no comparison, no equivalent, no
resemblance, it does not exist, Not to be known, not to be discovered.
'Wherever', wherever, wherever, in or out of itself or out." For that
there is no metaphor for wherever.


Because of that, the Brahmin said,


"He teaches the Dhamma for you: what is immediately visible, what is
immediate,


　what is quenched in craving, what is without calamity, there is no
metaphor for that anywhere."


111. I am not far from That one, Brahmin! Even for a moment:


　from the vast wise from Gautama, from the vast wise from Gautama.


"I am not far from the One": "I am not far away, away, away, away
from the Buddha." Because I am not far from the One.


"Brahmin! Even for a moment": "Even for a moment, even for an
instant, even for a moment, even for part of the time, even for half a
day." For even a moment. "Brahmin," he called his uncle respectfully.


"From the great wisdom of Gautama": "From the vastness of Gautama as
the sign (the broad wisdom), from the wisdom as the sign, from the
wisdom as the banner, from the wisdom as the flag, from the wisdom as
the ascendant , from the one who chooses much, from the one who chooses
much, from the one who thinks deeply, from the one who fully considers
the nature, from the one who dwells in comprehension, from the one who
is characterized by that, from the one who emphasizes on that, from the
one who takes that as the object , from the one who strives, from the
one who leans on that, from the one who overcomes, from the one who
increases." For the wise man from Gautama.


"From the vast and wise man of Gautama": "The earth is called broad,
and the World-Honored One possesses wisdom that is as vast and extended
as that earth. Wisdom is called wisdom, that is wisdom, knowledge and
understanding... (abbreviated in the middle) without delusion, choosing
the Dharma Right view. The Blessed One has, fully possesses, attained,
fully attained, fully attained, fully attained, possessed of this
wisdom, wisdom, and therefore, the Buddha is a very wise man.” For the
vast wise man from Gautama.


Because of that, His Holiness Binkiah said,


"I am not far from the One, Brahman! Even for a moment:


　from the Great Wisdom of Gotama, from the Great Wisdom of Gautama."


112. The One who taught me the Dhamma: directly visible


　There is no metaphor for that, anywhere .


"The One who taught the Dhamma for me": "[The One,] that is the One
who is the Blessed One, the One who exists, the One who has no teacher,
who has himself realized the truth in the Dhamma that has never been
heard before, and who reaches all knowing there. The state and the state
of being at ease in strength. "Teaching Dharma", "Dharma", beginning
with goodness, middle is good, and completion is good; meaningful, with
words; fully consummated and pure holy life: four mindfulness, The four
right effort, the four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five
powers, the seven factors of enlightenment, the eightfold path, nirvana,
and the path leading to nirvana, he explains, teaches, informs,
establishes, uncovers, interprets, clarifies, explains.” The one who
taught the Dhamma for me.


"Directly visible, immediate": "'Directly visible, immediate, asking
you to see, guiding, and worthy of being experienced by the wise.' This
is directly visible. Or, 'He is practising in his life With the Noble
Eightfold Path, he will realize that path continuously and immediately,
and he will find and obtain the fruit.” This is also directly visible.
“Instant”, such as when people give money at a certain time, [the
retribution] they are not continuous They wait for the time to get it.
The Dharma is really not this. Anyone who practices the eightfold holy
path in the current life will realize that path without interruption and
immediately. When he finds and obtains the fruit, it is not in another
place (the next life), not in other places. In other worlds (afterlife),
it is immediate." is directly visible, immediate.


"Desire of craving, no disaster": "'Desire of craving', craving of
lust... (Abbreviated in the middle) craving of Dharma. , the cessation
of hatred, the cessation of delusion, the cessation of the place of
interest, the cessation of rebirths, the cessation of rebirths, the
cessation of some, the cessation of samsara, the cessation of samsara.
The aggregates and fabrications are called calamities, the renunciation
of calamities, the cessation of calamities, the cessation of calamities,
immortality, nirvana." For the cessation of craving, the cessation of
calamities.


"There is no metaphor for that anywhere": "'for that', for Nirvana.
'No metaphor', no metaphor, no comparison, no equivalent, no
resemblance, it does not exist, Not to be known, not to be discovered.
'Wherever', wherever, wherever, in or out of itself or out." For that
there is no metaphor for wherever.


Because of that, His Excellency Bingeia said,


"He who teaches for me: the immediate, the immediate,


　the quenching of craving, the calamity-free, for whom there is no
metaphor anywhere."


113. I See him like an eye, Brahmin! Day and night,


　I spend my nights in reverence, just because then I don't think
I'm far away.


"I see him with the mind as the eye": "If there is a man with eyes
in the light who can see, see, behold, contemplate, observe form and the
like. In the same way, I see, see, behold, contemplate with the mind. ,
observe the Buddha, the World-Honored One." I saw him with my mind like
eyes.


"Brahmins! Day and night without slack": "Day and night without
slack, practise the Buddha's recitation with the mind." Brahmins! Day
and night without rest.


"I spend the night in reverence": "'in reverence', in reverence with
body, or in reverence with words, or in reverence with heart, or in
reverence as it means In reverence, in reverence, in reverence, in
reverence, in reverence [, in reverence], in reverence I pass, pass,
pass day and night.” For me in reverence spend the night.


"Just because of that I don't think it's far away": "When practising
with that Buddha reciting, I think it's 'not far away', I think, I know
it's 'not far away'. I know so; I know so; I'm so good; I'm so sure; I'm
so penetrating." Because of that I don't think I'm far away.


Because of that, His Excellency Binkiah said,


"I saw him with my mind, Brahman! Day and night,


　I spend my nights in reverence, just because I don't think I'm far
away."


114. Faith, Joy , mind, and recitation, these have not departed from
the teachings of Gautama.


　Wherever the wise man walks in the direction, I will pay homage to
him in that direction.


"Faith, joy, mind, and thought": ""Faith" refers to all beliefs,
beliefs, trusts, extremely pure faith, faith, root of faith, and
strength of faith in the World Honored One. Delight, joy, joy, joy,
laughter, laughter, happiness, contentment, excitement of the heart.
"Mind": All about the mind, mind, mind, mind (dirty), white (pervasive),
mind, Mind base, mind root, consciousness, and the aggregate of
consciousness, corresponding to that realm of consciousness. "Mind"
refers to all thoughts, random thoughts (remembering), and mindfulness
about the World-Honored One." It is faith, joy, mind, and mind.


"These do not depart from the teachings of Gautama": "These four
dharmas do not depart from the teachings of Gautama, the teachings of
the Buddha, the teachings of the victors, the teachings of the
Tathagata, the teachings of the Arahants, , go away, vanish." For these
did not depart from the teachings of Gautama.


"Wherever the broad-wisdom person goes": "The 'all-direction', east
or west, or south or north, he walks, walks, walks, goes. Beneficial,
broad-minded, quick-wisdom, quick-wisdom, insight-wisdom, the earth is
called vast, and the World-Honored One possesses the same vast and
extended wisdom as that earth.” This is the direction for those who are
vast and wise to go.


"I pay homage to the other in this direction": "It is the one who
pays homage in the direction of the Buddha, the one who takes that as
the object, the one who strives for that, the one who leans toward that,
the one who overcomes, and the one who increases. "For me is to pay
homage to others in that direction.


Because of that, His Excellency Binkiah said,


"Faith, joy, mind, and recollection, these have not departed from
the teachings of Gautama. Wherever the Great Wisdom goes


　, I pay homage to him in that direction."


115 .Because of my old age and weakness, just because my body didn't
walk there,


　I continued to walk with my thoughts, Brahmin! Because my will is
united with him.


"Because of my old age, weak strength": "Because of old age, old
age, old age and old age, has reached the age of old age. 'Because of
weak strength', due to weak strength, due to lack of strength, due to
small strength." Because of my aging , Weakness.


"Just because the body didn't go there": "The body didn't walk, go,
go, go to the Buddha." Because the body didn't go there because of that.


"I walk continuously with thinking": "I go in the state of thinking;
I go in the state of seeking; I go in the state of wisdom; I go in the
state of awareness; I go, walk, and advance in the state of going." For
me to keep walking with thoughts.


"Brahman! Because my mind is united with him": "Mind": all minds,
minds, minds... (abbreviated in the middle) correspond to that realm of
consciousness. "Brahmin! Because my mind is united with him": "Mind is
united with the Buddha, bound, completely bound." Brahman! Because my
will is united with him.


Because of that, the Venerable Binchia said,


"Because of my old age, my weakness, and because of that my body did
not walk there,


　I continued to walk with my thoughts, Brahman! Because my mind was
united with him."


116. Lie down . Trembling in the mud, I floated from Chau Island to
Chau Island,


　and saw the enlightened one: the one who has passed through the
storm, the one who has no worries.


The suffering of the dead sister...] the suffering of the dead
son... the suffering of the dead daughter... the suffering of the loss
of relatives... the suffering of the loss of wealth... the suffering of
the loss of disease... the decline of precepts The suffering of loss...
throbbing, trembling (throbbing all over), trembling (strong trembling),
trembling (strong trembling) with the suffering of seeing decay. ' for
lying trembling in the mud.


"I floated from island to island": "From master to master, from
teaching to teaching, from group to group, from seeing and seeing, from
trail to trail, from Tao to Tao, I floated and drifted. (floating up),
completely floating." Float from Chau Island to Chau Island for me.


"Then I saw the Enlightened One": "Then, the succession of
sentences; the connection of sentences; the consummation of sentences;
the combination of words; the connection of words; this is the order of
sentences, which is 'then'. 'See', see , Seeing, seeing, and
understanding. "The Enlightened One (Buddha)", that is the Anli
(pseudonym) that the World Honored One, the only one... Awakener.


"Those who have passed through the storm, those who have no
troubles": "'The one who has passed through the storm', "The
World-Honored One is the one who has passed through the storm of desire,
the one who has passed through the storm of some, the one who has passed
through the storm of seeing, and the one who has passed through The
violent streamer of ignorance, who has passed through, surpassed,
transcended, traversed, surpassed, and overcome all samsara, he is the
one who has descended to the state, the one who has practiced action...
His rebirth." In order to overcome the turbulence. "Those who have no
afflictions", there are four kinds of afflictions: the taint of desire,
the taint of existence, the affliction of seeing, and the taint of
ignorance. Those afflictions have been discarded by the Buddha and the
World-Honored One. A palm tree that has been cut off, [like] the root of
which has been cut off, becomes non-existent, something that will not be
born in the future, so the Buddha is called one who has no afflictions."
He is one who has passed through the storm, one who has no afflictions.


Because of that, His Excellency Binkiah said,


"Lying in the mud and trembling, I floated from Chau Island to Chau
Island,


　and then I saw the enlightened one: the one who has passed through
the storm, the one who is free from defilements .


" , as well as Bodhisattva, Aravi Gautama, and the


　same you should send a letter, Penkiah! You will go beyond the
realm of death.


"For example, Vagali is the one who releases the believer, as well
as Bodo Wuda and Arubi Gotama": "If the Lord Vagali is the one who has
the faith, the one who believes in the faith, the one who takes the
faith as the forerunner, the one who overcomes the problem of faith, and
the one who increases the faith , Those who have reached the state of
Arahants; for example, Lord Bodor Wuda is a believer, a believer, a
person who takes faith as a guide, a person who overcomes the problem of
faith, a person who increases faith, and who has reached the state of
Arahant; Those who re-believe, those who take faith as the forerunner,
those who conquer the solution, those who increase their faith, and
those who have reached the state of Arahant.” For example, Vagali is the
one who released the faith, as well as Bodo Wuda and Arubi Gautama.


"In the same way you should send out letters": "In the same way you
should release, send out, fully send out, add to send out, fix the
letter: 'All actions are impermanent' you should release, send out, send
out completely, add to the Send out and hold the letter; "All deeds are
suffering"... (Abbreviated in the middle) "All dharmas are non-self" You
should release, send out, send out completely, add to send out, hold the
letter... "Any collection of dharmas is It is the Dharma of
Destruction." You should release, release, fully release, increase
release, hold the letter." For the same you should release the letter.


"Pinkiah! You will go beyond the realm of death": the realm of death
is called defilements and aggregates and fabrications; the realm of
death is called immortality, nirvana, which is the cessation of
allactions , the cessation of allattachments, the cessation of craving,
the cessation of greed, the cessationof nirvana. "Pincia! You will go
beyond the realm of death": "You will go to the other shore; you will
reach the other shore; you will reach the other shore; you will testify
to the other shore." You will go beyond the realm of death.


Because of that, the Blessed One said:


"Like Vagali, who sent out believers, as well as Bodhisattva, Arubi
Gautama,


　You should also send a letter, Pennsylvania! You will go beyond
the realm of death.


118. In this way, I gain more self-confidence : after hearing Muni's
words,


　those who have opened the cover, those who are enlightened, those
who are not desolate, and those who are eloquent.


"I am more confident in this way": "I am more confident in this way,
I am more confident, I am more trusting (fixed), I am more confident:
"All actions are impermanent" I am more confident, I am more The more
trusting (fixed), the more superior I am; "All deeds are suffering", I
am more confident... (Middle abbreviation) "All dharmas are non-self" I
am more confident... (Middle abbreviation) "Anything Any dharma is
annihilation.” I am more confident, I am more trusting (fixed), and I am
more enlightened.” Because of this, I am more confident.


"After hearing the words of Muni": "Muni", Muni is called wisdom...
(Abbreviated in the middle) After transcending and dyeing the net, he is
Muni. "After hearing Muni's words": "Your words, language, teachings,
admonitions, after hearing, grasping, understanding, and discerning."
After hearing Muni's words.


"The one who has opened the cover, the enlightened one": "[The
cover], there are five kinds of cover: the cover of craving, the cover
of view, the cover of pollution, the cover of evil deeds, and the cover
of ignorance. It is said to have been opened, destroyed [, unwrapped],
completely unwrapped, abandoned, cut off, calmed, ceased, unable to
arise, burned by the fire of wisdom, Therefore, the Buddha is the one
who has opened the cover. The "Awakened One", that is the Anli
(pseudonym) who is the witness of the World-Honored One... (abbreviated
in the middle), the enlightened one.


"Those who are not desolate are those who are eloquent": "Those who
are not desolate are the desolation of greed, the desolation of hatred,
the desolation of ignorance, the desolation of anger, the desolation of
resentment... (Middle omitted) All the desolate desolation, those
desolation are opposite to According to the Buddha and the World Honored
One, the roots have been cut off, and [for example] the palm tree whose
roots have been cut off has become non-existent, something that will not
be born in the future. Therefore, the Buddha is not desolate.


There are three kinds of eloquence: the learned eloquent, the
eloquent eloquent, and the attained eloquent. What is a learned
eloquence? Here, a certain class of people are learners of the Buddha's
language (the Buddha's teachings): Shudara, Chiye, Jishuo, Gada, Udana,
Such Speech, Jataka, No Dharma, Viphra, Dependent on Him After learning
comes out, this is the learned eloquent.


What is an eloquent apologist? Here, a certain kind of person is the
one who asks all the time about [own] interests, righteousness
[interests], characteristics, reasons, possibility and impossibility
(disposition of wrongs), and appears after inquiring according to his
[that], This is the eloquent eloquence.


What is a proven apologist? Here, a certain type of person is the
attainment of the four mindfulness, the four right effort, the four
spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers, the seven
enlightenment factors, the eight noble paths, the four ascetic fruits,
the four eloquence, and the six supernatural powers. Those who know the
truth, the law, and the word, the truth is answered on the known truth,
the law is defended on the known law, and the word appears on the known
word, about these three kinds of wisdom is eloquent without hindrance
Understanding wisdom, the World-Honored One possesses, fully possesses,
reaches, fully reaches, possesses, fully possesses, and possesses this
eloquent and unimpeded interpretive wisdom, so the Buddha is a eloquent
one. Without learning, without asking, and without realizing, what will
he defend? "For those who are not desolate and eloquent.


Because of that, the Venerable Binqiya said,


"This way I gain more confidence: after hearing Muni's words,


　those who have opened the cover, those who are fully enlightened,
those who are not desolate, and those who are eloquent."


119. After realizing the supreme heaven, he Understanding everything
from himself, the


　master is the end of the problem, recognized by the doubters.


"Empress of the Supreme Heaven": "'Heaven', there are three kinds of
heavens: the earthly heaven, the heaven of rebirth, and the pure heaven.
What is the earthly heaven? Kings, princes and queens are called earthly
heavens, and these are called earthly heavens. What Rebirth Heaven? The
Four Great Kings Heaven, the Thirty-Three Days...(Middle abbreviation)
The Brahma Heavens and all the heavens above that are called Rebirth
Heavens, and these are called Rebirth Heavens. What is the Pure Heaven?
Tathagata, Tathagata The disciples have exhausted all the omissions.
Arahants and all the pratyekabuddhas are called pure heavens, and these
are called pure heavens. After the World-Honored One has realized the
"highest heavens" of the worldly heavens, and the "highest heavens" of
the reborn heavens, he has realized After knowing the "Supreme Heaven"
of the Pure Heaven, after understanding, after measuring, after judging,
after distinguishing, after clarifying." This is the realization of the
Supreme Heaven Queen.


"He understands everything from himself": "The World-Honored One
understands, knows, touches, and connects himself and others with the
way the supreme heaven should do. What is the way that the supreme
heaven should do? The right way, the obedient way, and not upside down.
The way of doing things [, the way of doing things that do not
contradict (the way of doing things without contradiction)], the way of
doing things as they mean, the way of doing things that follow the law,
the perfection of the precepts, the guarding of the gates on the
faculties, the one who knows the right amount of food and drink, the one
who specializes in sobriety, mindfulness, and clear comprehension , Four
mindfulness... (Abbreviated in the


middle) The Eightfold Noble Way , these are called the Dharma that
the Supreme Heaven of others should do. In this way, the Blessed One
understands, knows, touches, and penetrates the Dharma that the Supreme
Heaven should do between himself and others." For him, he understood
everything from himself to him.


"The master is the end of the problem": "The World-Honored One is
the end of the problem of the other side, the ultimate, the limit
(limit), the circle (conclusion); the end of the Sebiya problem, the
ultimate, As a limiter, as a circle; on the question of emperors...
(abbreviated in the middle) on the question of good Yama... on the
question of bhikkhus... on the question of bhikkhuni... on the question
of Upasaka... on the question of the king... The question of kings ...
of the Kshatriya problem... of the Brahmins... of the Vaisha... of the
Sudra... of the gods... of the Brahma, the end, the ultimate, the
limiter, and the circumference. ' is the end of the problem. 'Master',
'The World Honored One is the leader of the caravan, as the leader of
the caravan makes all living beings pass through the danger zone: make
them pass through the danger zone of thieves, make them pass through the
danger zone of wild beasts, make them Passing through the danger zone of
famine and passing through the danger zone of no water, He makes it come
out, make it cross, make it pass through, and make it reach the ultimate
place of safety. Likewise, the Blessed One is the leader of the caravan,
making all living beings pass through. Dangerous Zone: Make it pass
through the dangerous zone of life, the dangerous zone of old... (the
middle abbreviated) The dangerous zone of sickness... The dangerous zone
of death... Make it pass through the dangerous zone of sorrow, sorrow,
suffering, sorrow and despair, Make it through the danger zone of greed,
the danger zone of hatred...the danger zone of delusion...the danger
zone of slowness...the danger zone of seeing...the danger zone of
pollution...the danger zone of evil deeds... To pass through the jungle
of greed, the jungle of hatred... the jungle of delusion... the jungle
of slowness... the jungle of seeing... the jungle of pollution... the
jungle of evil deeds, he makes it come out and make it go over , to pass
it through, to bring it to stability, immortality, and nirvana." Thus
the Blessed One is the leader of the caravan.


Or, "The Blessed One is the guide, the one who subdues, the one who
comforts, the one who informs, the one who makes him consider, the one
who makes him see." The one who makes it clear.” This is also the World
Honored One as the leader of the caravan. Or, “The World Honored One is
the one who arises the unborn Tao, the one who brings the unborn Tao,
the one who does not preach the Tao; it is the Tao. Those who know,
those who know the Tao, those who know the Tao, the great virtue! Also,
now the disciples live in the followers of the Tao, and then they are
the ones who possess the Tao.” This is also the World Honored One as the
leader of the caravan.” Being a master is the end of the problem. By.


"Approved by the doubters": "The doubters come and become the
unsuspecting; the nicks come and become the unmarkers; the doubters come
and become the doubters; the doubters come and become the doubters; the
greed Those who come will become those who are free from greed; those
who have anger come and become those who are free from hatred; those who
are delusional will become those who are free from delusion; those who
are defiled will become those who are not polluted."


Because of that, His Excellency Binkiah said,


"After he has realized the supreme heaven, he understands everything
from himself to him, the


　master is the end of problems, and he is recognized by those who
doubt."


120. What cannot be moved, cannot be shaken, for that Saying that
there are no metaphors anywhere,


　indeed I will go, there is no doubt for me here, so please
remember me as one who has the understanding of victory.


"What cannot be moved, what cannot be shaken": "What cannot be moved
is called immortality, nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions,
the cessation of all attachments, the cessation of craving, the
cessation of craving, the cessation of nirvana, and the cessation of all
attachments. "Unmovable", "Unable to be greedy, hatred, delusional,
anger, resentment, hideous, domineering, jealous, stingy, deceitful,
cunning, stubborn, passionate, slow, extremely slow, sloppy, loose, All
pollution, all evil deeds, all scorching heat, all afflictions, all
afflictions, all vexations, all unwholesome contrived moving Nibbana is
permanent, firm, eternal, and unchangeable.” It cannot be moved


. What is shaken', what cannot be shaken is called immortality,
nirvana, that is the cessation of all actions... (abbreviated in the
middle) cessation, nirvana. For nirvana, the arising is not known, it
does not dissipate, its transformation is not known Nirvana is
permanent, firm, eternal, and unchangeable." It is unmovable, unshakable.


"There is no metaphor for that anywhere": "'for that', for Nirvana.
'No metaphor', no metaphor, no comparison, no equivalent, no
resemblance, it does not exist, Not to be known, not to be discovered.
'Wherever', wherever, wherever, in or out of itself or out." For that
there is no metaphor for wherever.


"Indeed I will go, there is no doubt for me here": "'Indeed', this
is the word of decisive (always), the word of doubt, the word of
confidence, the word of no second, the word of doubt, The word of
command, the word of no error, the word of no failure, the word of
certainty, is "sure." "I will go," "I will go, I will reach, I will
reach, I will Testify." For sure I will go. "Here is no doubt for me,"
"here," no doubt, no hesitation, no doubt, no doubt, no existence, no
known, no known, in Nirvana Discovery, abandoned, cut off, calmed down,
stopped, unable to arise, burned by the fire of wisdom." For sure I will
go, there is no doubt for me here.


"In this way, please remember me as a person with a mind of
victory": ""In this way, please remember and hold me." In this way,
please identify me. "Those with a mind of victory" are those who are
inclined towards Nirvana, those who are inclined towards Nirvana, and
those who are inclined towards Nirvana. Those who are inclined towards
Nirvana, those who overcome Nirvana." For this reason, please remember
me as someone who has a mind of victory.


Because of that, His Excellency Bingeia said:


"What cannot be moved, what cannot be shaken, there is no metaphor
for that, nowhere,


　indeed I will go, for me there is no doubt here, so please Recall
that I am the one who has the mind of victory."


The Eighteenth [Completed] of the Explanation of the Accompanying
Verse of the Other Shore.


The other side of the road has been completed.

Notes:
　1. The Dharma taught by the World-Honored One is directly visible and
immediate. The Dharma taught by other teachers are all rumors and
theoretical additions.
　2. The love of a person who believes in walking: I see him with my
mind like my eyes, day and night, I spend my nights in reverence,
wherever the wise person walks in the direction, I pay homage to him in
that direction, My will is with him.
　3. Nirvana: the cessation of craving, the cessation of craving, the
cessation of all actions, the cessation of all actions, the cessation of
all attachments, the renunciation of greed, the cessation of greed,
cessation of cravings, whatever it is for that There are no metaphors
anywhere vs. Nirvana is permanent, firm, eternal, unchangeable ⇒ Take
the first step towards everlasting bliss.
　11/12/2020 06:05
