Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
The second article
　　131. If you have a wise companion: a fellow traveler, a good
dweller, a wise one,
　　　after conquering all dangers, the mindful one should walk with him
happily. [Dhp.23, 328 verse]
　　"If you get a wise companion": "If you get, receive, get, have a
wise, wise, wise, sensible, wise, wise, wise companion. "For if you get
a wise companion.
　　"Walkers, good dwellers, wise ones": "'Walkers', those who walk
alone. 'Good dwellers', those who dwell in the first jhāna, also the
second jhāna...and also the third jhāna ... also regards the fourth
jhāna as a good resident, also regards the liberation of loving-kindness
as a good resident, also regards compassion... (middle abbreviated) and
joy... and also regards the liberation of a peaceful mind as a good
resident, also uses The resident who waits for the supreme good in the
boundless space, also waits for the place where the consciousness is
boundless... (Middle abbreviated) and also waits for the place where
there is nothing... , and also the cessation of the supreme good
dweller, and the fruition of the supreme good dweller. "The wise", the
wise are the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise, the wise, the
wise Those who are." A fellow traveler, a good dweller, a wise one.
　　"After conquering all dangers": "Crisis", there are two kinds of
dangers: obvious dangers and hidden dangers... (Middle abbreviated)
These are called obvious dangers... (Middle abbreviation) These are
called hidden dangers ... (Middle omitted) This is also a danger to
"dwelling there". "After conquering all dangers": "After all dangers he
conquered, defeated, overwhelmed, ended, crushed." After conquering all
dangers.
　　"The one who is mindful should walk with him pleasantly": ""The one
who is enlightened should be with the wise, wise, wise, enlightened,
wise, wise, wise companion To walk, stay, act, turn around, guard,
perpetuate, and live together with pleasure, contentment, pleasure,
pleasure, exuberance, pleasure." To walk with pleasure. "Those who are
mindful," the one who is alone A fully enlightened one is a mindful one,
possessing the highest mindfulness and intelligence, a rememberer, a
rememberer of what was done long ago and said long ago [ SN.48.9
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=48.9>]. ' For the mindful
one should walk with him pleasantly.
　　Because of that, the Solitary Enlightened One said,
　　"If a wise companion is found: a fellow traveler, a good dweller, a
wise one,
　　　after conquering all dangers, the mindful one should walk with him
happily."
　　132. If not Get wise companions: companions, good dwellers, wise ones,
　　　like a king who renounces his country's territory, he should walk
alone like a rhinoceros horn. [Dhp.23, 329 verse]
　　"If not a wise companion": "If not obtained, received, obtained,
possessed of wise, wise, wise, sensible, wise, wise, wise Companion."
For if you don't get a wise companion.
　　"Walkers, good dwellers, wise ones": "'Walkers', those who walk
alone. 'Good dwellers', those who dwell in goodness in the first
jhāna... Those who dwell, also take the fruit to be the ultimate good
dwellers. "The wise", the wise are the wise, the wise, the enlightened,
the wise, the wise, the wise." For the fellow, the good Dwellers, wise
ones.
　　"Like a king abandoning his country's territory": " Kshatriya
empowered kingThe victor, the one who defeats the enemy, the one who
obtains the desire, the one who stores the storehouse and storehouse is
full, he will forever leave behind the country, the land, the
storehouse, the storehouses of gold, the city, after shaving his hair
and beard, after wrapping himself in the cassock, from home. A monk
becomes a homeless person. After entering a state of nothingness, he
walks, lives, moves, turns around, protects, sustains, and survives. In
this way, the enlightened person cuts off all obstacles to the home and
cuts off his children and his wife. After cutting off the obstacle of
relatives, after cutting off the obstacle of relatives, after cutting
off the obstacle of friends [, after cutting off the obstacle of
storage], after shaving the hair and beard, after wrapping in the robe,
after becoming a homeless person from home, set out to become a After
being in a state of no possessions, he walks, lives, acts, turns,
guards, keeps alive, and keeps alive. "In order to abandon the country's
territory like a king, one should walk alone like a rhino's horn.
　　Because of that, the Solitary Enlightened One said:
　　"If you do not have a wise companion: a fellow traveler, a good
dweller, a wise one,
　　like a king who renounces his country's territory, he should walk
alone like a rhinoceros horn."
　　133. We do Companions who are complimented should be close to equal
companions of excellence, and
　　　those who do not have these blameless eaters should walk alone
like the horns of a rhinoceros.
　　"We do praise the Companion of Companions": "Indeed", this is the
word of decisive (always), the word of doubt, the word of
self-confidence, the word of indulgence, the word of doubt, the word of
command, the word of infallibility, Words of non-failure and certainty
are "sure". "Companion with fullness", whoever has the aggregate of
unlearned precepts...unlearned concentration...unlearned wisdom
aggregate...unlearned liberation aggregate...has unlearned liberation
knowledge and view aggregate is called a complete one companion. "We do
praise the full companion": "We praise, admire, praise, extol the full
companion." For we do praise the full companion.
　　"Should be close to the superior and equal companions": "They are
the superior companions of virtue, concentration, wisdom, liberation,
and the insight of liberation, and the equal companions of morality,
concentration, wisdom, liberation, and the insight of liberation.
Companions or equivalent companions, he should be close to, befriend
(serving), worship, ask questions, and ask questions.” It is an equal
companion who should be close to the superior.
　　"No fault eater after not getting these": "Some people are fault
eaters, and some are fault free eaters." Who is a fault eater? Here, a
certain kind of people give gifts with tricks, with conversation, with
hints, with sarcasm, with benefits for other benefits, with wood, with
bamboo, with leaves, with flowers, with bathing , with washing powder,
with clay, with tooth wood, with face wash, with flattery, with
rhetoric, with flattery, with backslander (Sri Lanka version), with
homesteading, with animals, Those who use astrology, use [as] envoys,
use [as] to send envoys, use [as] to run errands, use medical treatment,
use new construction work, use food in return, and give alms, and he
illegally and improperly obtains after him. , after obtaining, after
obtaining, after possessing, after receiving to survive, this is called
a person who eats at fault.
　　And who is a faultless eater? Here, a certain type of person does
not use tricks, talk, suggest, ridicule, exchange benefits for other
benefits, don’t give wood, don’t give bamboo, don’t give leaves, don’t
give Don't donate with flowers, don't donate with bathing, don't donate
with washing powder, don't donate with clay, don't donate with
toothwood, don't donate with face wash, don't donate with flattery,
don't talk with words, don't use flattery , Do not use back slander (Sri
Lanka version), do not use homesteading, do not use animal knowledge, do
not use astrology, do not use [as] envoys, do not use [should] send
envoys, do not use [should] run errands, and do not use medical
treatment. , not by means of new construction], by giving food in
return, and not by giving of alms, he sustains his life by rightly
obtaining, acquiring, acquiring, possessing, and receiving, this is
called no The man who eats the faults.
　　"He who eats these things without fault": "He who eats these things
without fault will not get them, get them, get them, have them, and
receive them." The eater of negligence should walk alone like a rhino's
horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"We do praise the Companions of Competence, and should be close to
the Companions of Exalted Equals, and
　　　those who do not have these blameless eaters should walk alone
like the horns of rhinos."
　　134. After seeing the splendor of gold: the
　　　two rubbed against each other by the blacksmith, they should walk
alone like the horns of a rhinoceros.
　　"After seeing the radiance of gold": "After seeing, after seeing,
after measuring, after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying.
'Golden' (Suvaṇṇassāti) is golden (jātarūpassa). )' is pure and pure
everywhere." After seeing the radiance of gold.
　　"Finished by a blacksmith": The blacksmith (the son of the
blacksmith) is called a goldsmith. "It is well finished by the forge":
"It is well finished by the forge, the work is good, and the work is
good and meticulous." For the well finished by the forged.
　　"Two rubbing hands on each other": "Hands (bhujo) are called hands
(hattho). It is like two bracelets on one hand rubbing against each
other. In the same way, beings are in hell because of craving and
because of vision. They generate friction, in the animal world they
generate friction, in the hungry ghost world they generate friction, in
the human world they generate friction, in the heavenly world they
generate friction, interest and interest... rebirth and rebirth...
Rebirth and rebirth... existence and existence... samsara and
reincarnation... Circulation and circulation, they rub against each
other, rubbing against each other, and rubbing against each other they
walk, live, act, turn up, guard, sustain, and survive." Because the two
are rubbing against each other, they should walk alone like rhino horns.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"After seeing the splendor of gold: what has been done well by the
forge,
　　two rubbing against each other in the hands, should walk alone like
the horns of a rhinoceros."
　　135. If this is the case with me With a partner, there will be
verbal conversation or sticking,
　　　watching the horrors of the future, should walk alone like a rhino
horn.
　　"So if I'm with my partner": "Have a craving partner or a person's
partner. What is a craving partner? 'craving', the craving of sex...
(the middle abbreviated) the craving of the Dhamma. Speaking of this
unbroken craving, the partner called craving.
　　"He who craves as a partner is in samsara for a long time, and
　　　in this state and other states, he does not transcend samsara." [
It.15 <https://agama.buddhason.org/It/dm.php?keyword=15>/Sn.3.12, 745
verse]
　　Such is the companion of craving.
　　What is the companion of man? Here is a type of person who has no
cause for profit, a cause for no reason, and no peace of mind to become
second to one, or to Two become the third, or to the three the fourth.
There is a lot of gossip there, ie: talk about kings, thieves,
ministers, armies, fear, war, food, drink , clothing theory, bedding
theory, garland theory, smell theory, closeness theory, car ride theory,
village theory, town theory, city theory, land theory, woman theory,
[man theory,] hero theory, street theory, water well theory,
Ancestralism, varietalism, world origin, ocean origin, whatever [ DN.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, para. 17]. Such is
the man's companion." For so if with my companion.
　　"There will be verbal conversation or sticking": "Voice conversation
is called the thirty-two kinds of animalism, namely: the king's
theory... (abbreviated in the middle) whether there is such a thing.
"Adhesion (attachment)", there are two kinds of sticking: [ Because of
the clinging of craving and the clinging of [because of] seeing...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the clinging of craving...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the clinging of seeing." For a
conversation or clinging with words.
　　"Watching the horrors of the future": "terror", terror of life,
terror of old age, terror of sickness, terror of death, terror of kings,
terror of thieves, terror of fire, terror of water, terror of
self-reproach, The terror of rebuke, the terror of clubs, the terror of
evil realms, the terror of waves, the terror of dragons, the terror of
whirlpools, the terror of crocodiles [ AN.4.122]
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=4.122>], the terror of
livelihood, the terror of disrepute, the terror of cowardice in a group,
the terror of intoxication [, the terror of a bad destination], the
terror of terrifying rigidity, the fear of standing hair on the body,
the fear of fear in the heart. "Watching the horrors of the future": "He
watches, sees, watches, watches, watches the horrors of the future." To
watch the horrors of the future, one should walk alone like a rhinoceros
horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"So if you are with my partner, there will be verbal conversation or
sticking,
　　watching the horrors of the future, and you should walk alone like a
rhino's horn."
　　136. Desires are indeed They are sweet and pleasing, they confuse
the mind in various ways, and
　　　after seeing trouble in various desires, one should walk alone
like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"All kinds of desires are indeed sweet and pleasing": ""Desires,"
there are two kinds of desires: desire for things and desire for
pollution... (Middle abbreviation) These are called desires for
things... (Middle abbreviation) ) These are called defilements.
"Various", various looks, various sounds, various looks smells, various
looks tastes, various looks touch, want, love, agree, Lovely and
various, accompanied by desire, greedy. "Like honey", this is said by
the Blessed One [ MN.139
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=139>]: Bhikkhus! Of these
five desires, which five? What is wanted, what is loved, what is
desirable, what is lovely, what is associated with desire, what is
greedy, what can be recognized by the ear... (abbreviated in the middle)
all sounds, what can be recognized by the nose... all smells, can The
tastes known by the tongue...the tastes that can be known by the body,
the wanted, the loved, the agreeable, the lovable, the accompaniment,
the greed, monks! These are the five Desire. BhikkhusThese five kinds of
pleasures and joys that arise from desire are called sensual pleasures,
unholy pleasures, ordinary people’s pleasures, and non-sacred pleasures.
Fear. '" for "All kinds of desires are indeed sweet and pleasing."
"Intention": "All minds... (abbreviated in the middle) correspond to
that realm of consciousness. They make the mind delight, praise,
satisfy, and laugh." For all kinds of desires are indeed sweet and
pleasing.
　　"In various forms they confuse the mind": "In various forms... (in
the middle) touched by various forms, they confuse the mind, satisfy,
laugh." Because in various forms they confuse the mind.
　　"After seeing suffering in various desires": This is said by the
Blessed One [ MN.13 <https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=13>]:
Bhikkhus! And what is the fault of desire? Bhikkhus! Here, all good men
make a living by skill: whether by inspection, whether by accounting,
whether by calculation, whether by farming, whether by trading, whether
by cattle herding, whether by archery, whether by royal officials,
whether by a certain skill, he In the face of the cold and heat, the
contact with the horsefly, the mosquito, the wind, the scorching sun,
the snake and the {contact}[victimized], and died of hunger and thirst,
monks! This is called the fault of desire, the directly visible
aggregate of suffering, desire is the cause, desire is the cause,
because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Bhikkhus! If a good man rises so hard, and strives so hard, and does
not get riches, he is sad, weary, weeping, beating his chest, and
weeping, and he comes to confusion [and says]: "My rise is indeed vain,
my effort is indeed fruitless." Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault
of desire, the directly visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the
cause, desire is the cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Bhikkhus! If a good man rises up, works hard, and works so hard to
get wealth, he will feel pain and worry in order to protect those
wealth: "How can neither the kings take my wealth, nor the thieves will
take it, nor the fire. Burn, nor will the water run away, nor will the
unlovable heirs take it?" When he guarded and protected those riches,
either the king took it, or the thief took it, or the fire burned, or
the water ran away, or The unlovable successor is taken away, and he
sad... (abridged) came to the confusion [and said]: "Whatever I had,
that is indeed gone." Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault of desire,
the directly visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the cause, desire
is the cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Again, monks! Desire is the cause, desire is the cause, because
desire, the cause is all desires, kings argue with kings, kshatriyas
argue with kshatriyas, brahmins argue with brahmins, house owners argue
with Homeowners argue, mothers and sons, sons and mothers, fathers and
sons, sons and fathers [, brothers and brothers], brothers and sisters,
sisters and brothers, Friends and friends argue. There they come to
quarrel, quarrel, argue, and strike one another with fists, and clods,
and clubs, and swords, and there they suffer death, or suffering like
death. Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault of desire, the directly
visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the cause, desire is the
cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Again, monks! Desire is the cause, desire is the cause, because
desire, the cause is all desires, after taking the sword and the shield,
after tying the bow and arrow, the two sides confront each other and
enter the battle, while the arrow is shot, the spear is also shot, and
the sword is shining, There they were pierced by arrows, spears,
beheaded by the sword, and there they suffered death, or suffering like
death. Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault of desire, the directly
visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the cause, desire is the
cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Again, monks! Desire is the cause, desire is the cause, because
desire, the cause is all desires, take the sword and the shield, tie the
bow and arrow, and throw it into the wet fortress, while the arrow is
shot, the spear is shot, and the sword is shining. , where they were
pierced by arrows and spears, drenched in cow dung, crushed by heavy
objects, and beheaded by swords, where they suffered death, or suffering
like death. Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault of desire, the
directly visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the cause, desire is
the cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Again, monks! Desire is the cause, desire is the cause, because
desire, the cause is all desires, they invade people's houses, they also
take (carry) the plunder, they also become robbers, they also block the
road and loot, and they adulter (enter) other people's wives. After the
king captures him, They impose various punishments: whipping, beating
with sticks, beating with sticks, cutting off their hands...
(abbreviated in the middle) and beheading with swords, where they suffer
death, or suffering like death. Bhikkhus! This is also called the fault
of desire, the directly visible aggregate of suffering, desire is the
cause, desire is the cause, and because desire, the cause is desire.
　　Again, monks! Desire is the cause, desire is the cause, because
desire, the cause is all desires, evil deeds are done by body, evil
deeds are done by speech, and evil deeds are done by mind. He does evil
deeds with his body, evil deeds with his speech, and after he does evil
deeds with his mind, then with the disintegration of his body, he will
be reborn in a miserable world, an evil destination, a lower world, and
hell after death. Bhikkhus! This is also known as the fault of desire,
the suffering aggregate of the later life, desire is the cause, desire
is the cause, because desire, the cause is all desire.
　　"After seeing the troubles in various desires": "After seeing the
troubles in various desires, after seeing, after measuring, after
judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying." , should walk alone
like a rhino horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Desires are indeed sweet and pleasing, and in various ways they
confuse the mind, and
　　　after seeing trouble in various desires, one should walk alone
like a rhinoceros horn.
　　137. This is my disaster and tumor and scourge, disease and stab
arrow and terror,
　　　after seeing this terror in all kinds of desires, I should walk
alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"This is my calamity and tumor and scourge, disease and arrow and
terror": this is said by the Blessed One [ AN.8.56
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=8.56>]: "Monks! 'Terror'
is synonymous with desire; monks! 'suffering' is synonymous with desire;
monks! ', which is synonymous with desire; monks, "piercing arrows,"
which is synonymous with desire; monks! Synonyms; Bhikkhus! "Mother's
womb" is a synonym for lust. Bhikkhus! Why is "horrible", a synonym for
lust? Bhikkhus! Because those who are tainted by lust and bound by lust
are born Not free from terror, not free from terror in the next life,
therefore, "horror" is synonymous with desire. Bhikkhus! Why is
"suffering"... (abbreviated in the middle) "disease"... "tumor"... "stab
arrow" '...'stained'...'the quagmire'...'mother's womb', is this
synonymous with lust? Bhikkhus! Because those who are tainted by lust
and bound by lust should be born and will not be liberated from their
mother's womb, and will be born in the next life. Not being liberated
from the mother's womb, therefore, 'mother's womb' is synonymous with
desire."
　　"Terror, suffering, disease, tumors, thorns, and defilements, both
the quagmire and the mother's womb,
　　　these are called desire, and here the average person is attached
to it. Falling into conformity ,
　　　then into the womb,
　　　when a bhikkhu becomes zealous, not giving up the right knowledge.
　　　He conquers the obstacles, the road like that,
　　　he observes the trembling people: with life and death."
　　For this is mine Disaster and tumor and scourge, disease and stab
and terror.
　　"After seeing this horror in all kinds of desires", "after seeing
this horror in all kinds of desires, after seeing, after measuring,
after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying." After seeing
this horror in all kinds of desires , should walk alone like a rhino horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"This is my calamity and tumor and scourge, disease and thorn and
arrow and terror.
　　　After seeing this terror in all kinds of desires, I should walk
alone like a rhinoceros horn."
　　138. Cold, hot, thirst, and the wind and the sun, the snake,
　　　after enduring all this, you should walk alone like a rhino horn.
　　"Hot and cold hunger and thirst": "'Cold', there are two reasons for
cold: cold due to internal excitement, or cold due to external climate.
"Hot", there are two reasons for heat: due to internal excitement And
there is heat, or heat due to the external climate. Hunger is called
hunger. Thirst is called craving for water."
　　"And to the wind and the sunfly snake": "'Wind', east wind, west
wind, north wind, south wind, dusty wind, dustless wind, cold wind, hot
wind, light wind, strong wind, swift wind [ SN.17.9
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=17.9>], side Wind, Garuda
wind, Doro leaf wind, Fan wind. The scorching sun is called the torment
of the sun (hot). The horsefly is called the gadfly. The snake (crawler)
is called the snake." .
　　"After enduring all this": "After he defeated, crushed, finished,
crushed." To endure all this, one should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"After enduring all this with cold, heat, hunger and thirst, as well
as the wind, the sun and the snake,
　　　you should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros .
　　" The torsois a lotus flower, an excellent one, who
　　　will live in the forest as he likes, and should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　"Like a dragon elephant after giving up the herd of beasts": The
dragon elephant is called the dragon elephant (elephant), and the single
enlightened person is also the dragon elephant. For what reason is the
Enlightened One a Dragon Elephant? "Do not commit crimes" is the dragon
elephant; "Don't go" is the dragon elephant; "Don't come" is the dragon
elephant. How is the solitary enlightened one who "does not commit
crimes" as a dragon elephant? Sins are called evil and unwholesome
dharmas: conforming to pollution, re-occurrence, fear, suffering, future
birth, old age and death.
　　Those who do not commit any sin in the world, who have abandoned all
fetters and ties,
　　are not attached to everything and have been liberated, are truly
called dragon elephants.
　　In this way, the single enlightened person "does not commit crimes"
is the dragon elephant.
　　How is the single enlightened person "not going" to be the dragon
elephant? The Enlightened One who does not abandon desires should not
do; those who do not abandon hatred should not do; those who do not
abandon delusion should not do; those who do not abandon fear should not
do; do not go away because of greed; Go away because of anger; go away
not because of ignorance; go away because of arrogance; go away because
of seeing; go away because of ignorance; go away because of doubts; go
away because of vexation potential trends; Carry away, take away, carry,
carry. In this way, the single enlightened person "does not go" is the
dragon elephant.
　　How is the single enlightened person "not coming" as a dragon
elephant? All the contaminations that are abandoned by the Sudavan Path,
those contaminations will no longer be experienced, will not return, and
will not go back; if they come to the Dao... (middle abbreviated), they
will not return to the Dao... (middle abbreviated) All the
contaminations that are abandoned by the Arahant Dao , those pollutions
he no longer experience, do not return, do not go back. In this way, the
single enlightened person "does not come" is the dragon elephant.
　　"Like the dragon elephant after abandoning the herd": "If the dragon
elephant, after giving up, avoiding, and avoiding the herd, enters the
forest alone, walks behind the deserted forest, lives, moves, turns
around, guards, makes it survive, makes it survive, The only enlightened
person also gives up, avoids, and avoids the masses, and then uses the
forests, wild forests, and frontier dwellings (reclining places) alone:
​​quiet, quiet, away from the atmosphere of people, living alone,
suitable for solitude. Sitting; he [walks alone,] walks alone, stands
alone, sits alone, sleeps alone, enters the village alone for almsgiving
[, advances alone], returns alone, sits alone in a quiet place, walks
alone, walks alone, dwells alone , to act, to turn, to guard, to
survive, to survive." After giving up the herd for the dragon elephant.
　　"The torso born is the one with lotus flower, the outstanding one":
"Just as the torso of the dragon elephant has the seven or eight
treasures, the single enlightened person also uses the unlearned precept
aggregate, the unlearned concentration aggregate, and the unlearned
aggregate. Learning the aggregate of wisdom, liberating the aggregate
with unlearning, and liberating the aggregate of knowledge and seeing
with unlearned liberation has a generated trunk; like the dragon
elephant with a lotus flower, the single enlightened person also uses
the flower of the seven factors of enlightenment as a lotus flower: with
mindfulness The flower of the enlightenment factor, the flower of the
enlightenment factor of choice, the flower of the enlightenment factor
of vitality, the flower of the enlightenment factor of joy, the flower
of the enlightenment factor of tranquility, the flower of the
enlightenment factor of concentration, the flower of the enlightenment
factor of tranquility. The head dragon elephant is born with power
(fortitude), strength, speed, and bravery, and the single enlightened
person is also excellent with morality, concentration, wisdom,
liberation, and liberation. The torso of the lotus, the excellence.
　　"Will live in the forest as he likes": "Just as the dragon and
elephant live in the forest as he likes, the single enlightened person
also lives in the forest as he likes: with the first jhana, he lives in
the forest as he likes; With the second jhāna... (abbreviated in the
middle), also with the third jhāna... and also with the fourth jhāna,
living in the woods as he likes; also living in the forest with
loving-kindness and liberation; Liberate with joyful mind...and live in
the forest as you like with peace of mind; also live in the forest as
you like with the boundless space; also wait for the boundless
consciousness...and wait for nothing ...and wait until the place where
you don't think about it...and wait until you disappear...and wait until
you live in the forest as you like." In order to live in the forest as
you like, it should be like a rhino's horn. walk alone.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"Like a dragon and elephant, after giving up the herd: the body born
is a lotus flower, an excellent one, who
　　　will live in the woods as he likes, and should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　140. That is impossible : those who are willing to gather can reach
temporary relief, and
　　　after listening to the words of the Sun people, they should walk
alone like rhino horns.
　　"It is impossible: those who take pleasure in meeting can reach
temporary liberation": "This is said by the Blessed One [ MN.122]
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=122>]: Ananda! Indeed, "A
bhikkhu who enjoys gatherings, is better than gatherings, likes
gatherings, who devotes himself to gatherings, is better than
gatherings, and finds joy in gatherings will be those who are free from
desire, happy in solitude, happy in peace, happy in enlightenment, etc."
The one who can get it at will, the one who gets it without difficulty,
and the one who gets it without difficulty. "it's out of the question.
But, Ananda! "Wherever a bhikkhu lives alone, away from groups, this can
be expected: such a bhikkhu will be a free-lancer of bliss free from
desire, bliss of solitude, bliss of tranquility, bliss of enlightenment,
etc., without difficulty. Those who get it without difficulty. "this is
possible. Ananda! Indeed, "Every bhikkhu who enjoys gatherings, is good
at gatherings, likes gatherings, devotes himself to gatherings, prefers
gatherings, and delights in gatherings, will enter and dwell in
temporary, cola-mind liberation, or non-temporary, Unshakable [mind
liberation]. "it's out of the question. But, Ananda! "Wherever a bhikkhu
lives alone, away from groups, this can be expected: such a bhikkhu will
enter and dwell in temporary, cola-mind liberation, or non-temporary,
unshakable [mind liberation]. "this is possible. "Because that is
impossible: those who are happy to meet can reach temporary liberation.
　　"After listening to the words of the people of the Sun": The sun
(ādicco) is called the sun (sūriyo), and his surname is Gautama.
relatives, so the one who is enlightened is a member of the Sun tribe.
"After listening to the words of the Sun people": "After listening to
the words, language, teachings, teachings, and admonitions of the Sun
people, after hearing, grasping, understanding, and discerning." Walk
alone like a rhino horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"That is impossible: those who are happy to meet together can reach
temporary relief, and
　　　after listening to the words of the Sun people, they should walk
alone like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　" completed].


Notes:
　1. You can also have a partner: better or equal than yourself,
otherwise it will increase friction or unhelpful conversation or sticking.
　2. Desires are indeed sweet and pleasing, but they confuse the mind
with variety: Desire = terror, suffering (MA.99
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MA/dm.php?keyword=99>Bitter Yin Meridian),
disease, tumor, thorn arrows, dyeing, quagmire, mother's womb.
　3. Don't take pleasure in gatherings ( MA.191
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MA/dm.php?keyword=191>The Great Sky Sutra).
　4. A person who walks alone like a rhino horn must be able to endure
cold, heat, hunger and thirst.
　11/28/2020 06:41
Commentary:
　　 "Territory" (vijitaṃ), another meaning of the adjective
"conquered", becomes "a country that abandons the conquest", but the
commentary says "he will forever leave the country (raṭṭhañca), the
country (janapadañca)...", It is now translated as "territory".
　　 "Clinging" (abhisajjanā, another translation is "attachment",
another meaning is "angry, cursing"), "Dharma Light" explains that "on
that one is born by love or clinging" (tasmiṃ sinehavasena abhisajjanā
vā jātā), Consistent with the commentary.
　　 "Trunk" (khandho, also translated as "aggregate, shoulders"),
"Dharma Light" in the commentary of "the person with lotus" (padumī), it
is explained as "the limb equivalent to the lotus"
(padumasadisagattatāya vā), and now it is based on this. Select "Trunk;
Torso" to translate. Also, the explanatory texts use the precepts to
explain, and this aggregate (aggregation) is the same word as this.
