Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
The third article
　　141. The distorted view has been cast off, the decision has been
reached, the path has been attained,
　　　I am the one who has arisen wise and will not be led by others: I
should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"The distorted view has been cast off": The distorted view is called
the view of the Twenty Refugees. Here, the unheard of ordinary people
are those who have not seen the holy ones, those who are not familiar
with the laws of the holy ones, and those who have not been taught in
the teachings of the holy ones; those who are not seen by the good
people, those who are not familiar with the laws of the good people, and
have not been taught in the teachings of the good people. Or, he thinks
that form is me, or I have form, or form is in me, or I am in form,
feeling... (omitted) thinking... action... thinking that consciousness
is me, or I have consciousness, or consciousness is In me, or I am in
consciousness [ SN.22.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=22.1>], every view like
this, evil view, jungle view, desert view, distorted view, wavering
view, bound view grasps, accepts, clings to Holding, clinging, the base
of the wrong way, the wrong way, the wrong nature, the wrong way, the
grip of the reverse (vipariyesa), the grip of the reverse (viparīta),
the grip of the reverse (vipallāsa), the grip of the evil, "in The grasp
of what is not true [sees] as true", all that comes to the sixty-two
evil views, these are distorted views. "The distorted view has been cast
off": "The distorted view has been cast off, it has been crossed, it has
been crossed over, it has been overcome." It is the distorted view that
has been cast off.
　　"Decision has been reached, the path has been attained": "The four
[noble] paths are called determination. {The eight noble paths, namely:
Right View, Right Ambition, Right Speech, Right Action, Right
Livelihood, Right Effort, Right Mindfulness, Right Concentration?}
"Those who possess the Four Noble Paths have attained, have fully
attained, have attained, have attained, and have testified to the
decision." That is, the decision has been reached. "Having attained the
path", [the Eightfold Noble Path, namely: Right View, Right Aspiration,
Right Speech, Right action, right livelihood, right effort, right
mindfulness, right concentration?] The path has been attained, the path
has been attained, the path has been attained, the path has been
reached, the path has been attained.” It means that the path has been
reached, the path has been attained.
　　"I am the one who has arisen wise and will not be guided by others":
""The wisdom of the enlightened one has arisen, has arisen fully, has
arisen, has arisen, has appeared: the wisdom of 'all actions are
impermanent' Has arisen, has fully arisen, has been born, has arisen,
has appeared; "all formations are suffering"... (abbreviated in the
middle) "all dharmas are non-self"..."everything that arises is
cessation of dharmas" wisdom has arisen , has fully arisen, has been
born, has been born, has appeared. 'Because I am the wise one who has
arisen. "One who will not be guided by others", the Enlightened One is
one who is not guided by others, who does not depend on others, who does
not depend on others, who has reached and is not bound by others. He
knows and sees as it really is. The ignorant, the wise, the rememberer:
"All actions are impermanent." He is one who is not guided by others,
who is not dependent on others, who is not dependent on others, who has
reached and is not bound by others, he knows as it is, Seeing is the one
who is not ignorant, the one who knows, and the one who remembers; "all
actions are suffering"... (abbreviated in the middle) "all dharmas are
non-self"... "all dharmas are annihilation" He is not affected by others
Those who guide, those who do not depend on others, those who are not
dependent on others, who have reached those who are not bound by others,
who know and see as they really are, are those who are not ignorant,
those who know, and those who remember. "Because I am the wise one who
has arisen and will not be led by others: one should walk alone like the
horn of a rhinoceros.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"The distorted view has been cast off, the decision has been
reached, the path has been attained,
　　　I am the one who has arisen wise, and who will not be led by
others: I should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros."
　　142. Those who have no greed, no deceit, no desires, those who do
not hide evil, who have eliminated evil and delusion, and who have
　　　become free from desire in all the world, should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　"Those without greed, without deceit, without craving": "greed is
called craving, that is greed, greed (complete greed)... (middle) greed,
the root of unwholesome greed. That greed, craving, for that A single
enlightened person has been abandoned, the root has been cut off, [such
as] a palm tree whose roots have been cut off, has become non-existent,
and is not born in the future. Therefore, the single enlightened person
is the one without greed .
　　There are three kinds of tricks for "those who do not deceive":
tricks for being able to use, tricks for behavior and tricks, tricks for
surrounding words.
　　What are the tricks of the utilitarian scheme? Here, the owners of
the house invite the monk with clothes, food, shelter, the needs of the
sick, and the necessities of medicine. Many people refuse clothing,
food, shelter, the sick, and the necessities of medicine. He said, "What
does a monk with high-value clothing do! It is appropriate that all
recluses should wear rags from the mounds or the rubbish dumps or the
storefronts and make them into overcoats. What does it mean to a recluse
to feed with high value! It is appropriate that any ascetic should live
on a small lump of food while gleaning. What does a high-value dwelling
have to a Samana! It is appropriate that a recluse should be one who
lives under a tree or in a mound or in an open field. With high-value
patient needs and medical necessities, what does it mean to a monk! It
is appropriate that any ascetic should use the medicine fermented with
cow urine or crushed halile. ' After grasping that, he wears coarse
clothes; receives coarse food; lives in coarse dwellings; The owners of
the house knew him this way: "This ascetic is one who has less desires,
one who is contented, one who lives alone, one who is away from the
crowd, one whose vitality has been activated, one who speaks of the
dharma. ' They are more and more invited with clothing, food, shelter,
the needs of the sick, the necessities of medicine. He said: "In the
present state of the three states, a man of good faith produces many
merits: in the present state of faith, a man of good faith produces many
merits, and a man of good faith produces many merits, and a man of good
faith produces many merits, which are worthy of offering. In the current
state, there are many good-faith men who have good faith. You are the
believer, and the gift exists (to be found), and I am the recipient, if
I do not accept, then you will be outsiders of the blessing, this is not
necessary for me, but just for pity You, I accept. ' After clinging to
that, he received many clothes, many alms of food, many shelters, and
many sick people's needs, medical necessities. The frown of those who
frown like this; the path of the deceitful man, the state of the
deceitful man, this is the deceitful thing that is capable of being used.
　　What is the tricky thing about behavior tricks? Here, some kind of
evil-desiring, desiring-nature, desiring-respect [thought]: 'Then people
will respect me. ' He sets to walk, sets to stand, sets to sit, sets to
lie down, walks for desires, stands for desires, sits for desires, lays
down for desires, walks as those who are in concentration, walks as if
they are in concentration. stand as one who is meditative, sit as one
who is meditative, lie down as one who is meditative, and become visible
as meditative. Any placement of deeds like this, enhanced placement,
full placement; frowns of frowns; deceitful paths of tricksters, state
of trickery, this is the tricky thing of deeds of deeds.
　　What are the tricks of the surrounding language tricks? Here, some
kind of evil-desiring, desiring-nature, desiring-respect [thought]:
'Then people will respect me. ' He spoke according to the Dhamma, and he
said: 'Whoever dresses like this is a recluse of great power. ' He said:
'Anyone who bears a bowl like this... (abbreviated in the middle) holds
a copper bowl...a water filter...a water filter bag...a key...wears
shoes...a belt...a lace...he It is a monk of great power. ' He said:
'Whoever his monks are like this is a monk of great power. ' He said:
'Anyone whose teacher is like this... (abridged in the middle) is a monk
who is like this...a
teacher...friend...acquaintance...closer...companion...he is a monk with
great power. ' He said: 'Whoever lives in a dwelling like this...a
half-roofed house...lives in a high-rise...in a flat...in a cave...in a
cave...in a hut (solitary mansion)...' ...living in the heavy pavilion
... living in the watchtower ... living in the round house ... living in
the shack ... living in the lecture hall ... living in the tent ...
living under the tree ... he is the monk of great power. ’
　　Or, one who keeps frowning; one who keeps frowning; one who keeps
scheming; one who keeps nagging; one who is respected for his mouth, he
says as deep, secret, subtle, secret, otherworldly, Talking about
emptiness: "This ascetic waited for this quiet dwelling like this. ' The
frown of those who frown like this; the path of the trick, the state of
the trick, this is the trick of the surrounding language. To the
Enlightened One, these three kinds of tricks: the tricks of being
equipped and used, the tricks of deeds, the tricks of the surrounding
words have been discarded, cut off, calmed down, silenced, It cannot
arise and be burned by the fire of wisdom, so the one who is enlightened
alone is not a trickster. .
　　"Those who have no desire", desire is called craving, that is greed,
greed... (Abbreviated in the middle) greed, the root of greed is
unwholesome. That longing, that craving, has been renounced, the root
has been cut off for the One Enlightened One, [as] the palm tree with
its roots cut off, becomes non-existent, unborn for the future,
therefore, the One The Enlightened One is the one who has no desire. "He
who has no covetousness, who has no deceit, and who has no desire.
　　"Those who do not hide evil, have eliminated filth and delusion":
"Hidden evil, all those who hide evil, hypocrisy, hypocrisy, jealousy,
and jealous behavior. 'Defilement' is the filth and hatred of greed. The
filth of delusion, the filth of ignorance, anger... (middle abbreviated)
Resentment... Hiding evil... Arrogance... All the filth that is not good
and contrived. "Delusion" means ignorance in suffering, ignorance in the
accumulation of suffering, in The ignorance of the cessation of
suffering, the ignorance of the path leading to the path of suffering,
the ignorance of the past, the ignorance of the future, the ignorance of
the past and the future, the ignorance of certain conditions and
conditions, Ignorance like this, not seeing, not seeing, not being aware
[, not properly enlightened], not understanding, not firm, not
understanding, not seeing properly, not examining, {not examining karma}
[not understanding], inferior wisdom , ignorance, ignorance, ignorance,
ignorance, ignorance, ignorance, flood of ignorance, yoke of ignorance,
latent tendency of afflictions of ignorance, entanglement of ignorance,
fence of ignorance, root of ignorance and unwholesomeness. Evil and
defilement and delusion have been spit out, have been spit out
completely, have been eliminated, have been abandoned, have been cut
off, have been calmed down, have been stopped, have not arisen, have
been burned by the fire of wisdom." The only enlightened one is one who
does not hide evil, one who has eliminated filth and delusion.
　　"Become one who is free from desire in all the worlds": desire is
called craving, which is greed, greed... (abbreviated in the middle)
greed, the root of unwholesome greed. "In all worlds", in the world of
suffering, in the world of human beings, in the world of gods, in the
world of aggregates, in the world of worlds, in the world of beings.
"Becoming one who is free from desire in all the worlds": "After
becoming one who is free from desire in all the worlds; after becoming
one who is free from craving; after becoming one who is free from
desire." walk alone.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"He who has no covetousness, who has no deceit, who has no desire,
who does not hide evil, who has eliminated evil and delusion,
　　　After becoming one who is free from wishes in all the worlds, you
should walk alone like the horn of a rhino.
　　143. Evil companions should be avoided: those who see no benefit,
those who are fixed on what is wrong,
should 　　　not make friends with enthusiasts, those who are loose, and
should walk alone like rhino horns.
　　"Evil companions should be avoided": Anyone with a wrong view who
has ten bases for that companion is called an evil companion: "He who is
not given, who is not sacrificed, who is not offered, who has neither
good nor bad karma The fruit and retribution, there is no this world, no
other world, no mother, no father, no living beings, and there are no
righteous, righteous ascetic and brahmins in the world who testify and
tell this world and other worlds. "This is the evil companion. "Evil
companions should be avoided": "Evil companions should be avoided,
should be avoided." To avoid evil companions.
　　"A seer who has no benefit, one who is fixed above what is wrong":
"A person with a wrong view who has ten bases for his companion is
called a seer with no benefit: 'No alms, no offerings... (Abbreviated)
and Wisdom testifies and informs this world and other worlds.” “Those
who are fixed on the unrighteous”, those who are fixed on the wrong
bodily actions; those who are fixed on the wrong speech actions; Those
who are fixed; those who are fixed by wrong killing; those who are fixed
by not giving and taking; those who are fixed by wrongful sexual
misconduct; those who are fixed by wrong lying; those who are fixed by
wrong words Those who are fixed; those who are fixed on wrong foul
language; those who are fixed on wrong profanity; those who are fixed on
wrong greed; those who are fixed on wrong malice; those who are fixed on
wrong views ; fixed on the wrong formations; fixed on the wrong five
desires; fixed on the wrong five lids, deeply fixed (attachment), stuck,
stopped, stuck, entered , defiled, orientated [, attached to, affixed
to, obstructed].” The seer who is unprofitable, the one who is fixed on
the unrighteous.
　　"One should not associate with those who are enthusiasts and those
who are loose": "people who are enthusiasts", those who seek, seek, and
seek in all desires, those who have that character, those who are more
of that, those who value that, those who take that as their object, and
those who seek that The one who strives, who leans toward that, who who
overcomes, who who increases, is the one who is passionate about desire.
Whoever because of craving [seeks, seeks,] seeks out in all forms... in
sound... (abbreviated in the middle), in smell... in taste... in
touch... in touch, that character, Those who are more than that, those
who value that, those who take that as their object, those who strive
toward that, those who lean toward that, those who overcome, and those
who increase, are also those who are passionate about desire. Whatever
is obtained by craving in form... in sound... (abbreviated in the
middle) in smell... in taste... in touch, that character, those who are
more than that, those who value that, those who take that For the one
who is the object, the one who strives for that, the one who leans
toward that, the one who overcomes, and the one who increases, he is
also one who is passionate about desire. Whoever is used by thirst in
various forms... in sound... (abbreviated in the middle), in smell... in
taste... in touch, those who are of character, those who are more, those
who value that, those who value that The one who is the object, the one
who strives, the one who inclines to that, the one who overcomes, and
the one who increases, he is also a person who is passionate about
desire. For example, critics are eager to criticize, and workers are
eager to do work. The person who walks on the action state is keen on
the action state, and the meditator is keen on meditation. In the same
way, whoever seeks, seeks, and seeks in all kinds of desires, the one
who has the character, the one who is more, the one who values ​​that,
the one who takes that as the object, the one who strives for that, the
one who leans toward that, the one who overcomes that, The one who
increases, he is a lover of lust. Whoever seeks, seeks, and craves in
all things because of craving... (Abbreviated in the middle) Whoever
obtains in all things because of craving... (Abbreviation) Whoever is
used in all things because of craving...in In terms of sound...
(abbreviated in the middle) in terms of smell... in taste... in terms of
touch, those who have that character, those who are more, those who
value that, those who take that as the object, those who work towards
that, those who are inclined towards that , to the one who overcomes,
and to the one who increases, he is also an enthusiast of desire. "The
looser", in the evil deeds of the body, or in the evil deeds of speech,
or in the evil deeds of the mind, or in the five senses, can be
reincarnated, the abandonment of the mind does not arise, [or] The state
of doing good deeds without respect, the state of impermanence, the
state of non-stop action, the state of being attached to the habit, the
state of neglecting desire, the state of neglecting responsibility, not
practicing, not practicing, not doing much , do not establish, do not
practice [, let loose]. Any state of letting loose, letting go, letting
go like this is called letting go.
　　"I should not make friends with enthusiasts and loose people": "I
should not make friends with enthusiasts; It should be practiced well
(completely practiced), and it should not be accepted and then turned
around.” For oneself, one should not make friends with enthusiasts or
loose people, and should walk alone like a rhino’s horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"You should avoid evil companions: those who see no benefit, those
who are fixed on what is wrong,
　　　you should not make friends with enthusiasts, those who are loose,
you should be like a rhinoceros horn. Walk alone."
　　144. You should be close to those who have learned much, those who
hold the law, and good friends who are eloquent.
　　　After knowing the benefits, you should eliminate doubts, and you
should walk alone like a rhino's horn. "You should be close to those who
have heard many things and those who hold the Dharma
　　": friends are those who have heard many things, those who remember
what they have heard, and those who accumulate what they have heard. He
declaresthe Dharma that is completely perfect and purifying throughout
the holy life. Such Dharma is often heard, memorized, recited, observed
with the heart, and penetrated by the goodness of seeing. "Dharma
Holders", Dharma Memory Holders: Shutara, Chiye, Jishuo, Gada, Udana,
Such Words, Jātaka, No Dharma, Viphra. "Should be close to those who
have learned much, and those who bear the Dharma": "The friends of those
who have learned much and those who have the Dharma should be close,
should be completely close, should be obedient, should be bent towards
obedience, should be fully obeyed, and should be directed towards
obedience." , Law holders.
　　"Excellent and eloquent friend": "Friends are excellent in virtue,
concentration, wisdom, liberation, and liberation-wisdom. 'The
eloquent', there are three kinds of eloquent: the learned eloquent and
the inquisitive eloquence A person who has learned the eloquence. What
is a learned eloquent person? Here, a certain type of person is a person
who has learned the Buddha's language (the Buddha's teachings): Shutara,
Chiye, Jishuo, Gada, Udana, and so on. Language, Jātaka, No Dharma,
Viphra, appear after learning according to him, this is the learned
eloquent person.
　　What is the eloquent eloquent person? Here, a certain kind of person
is in [their] interests, the righteousness [Benefits], characteristics,
reasons, possibility and impossibility (dispositions) are those who are
always asking, depending on his [that] and appearing after asking, this
is the eloquent person who asks all the time.
　　What is attainment The eloquent person? Here, a certain type of
person is a person who has attained the four mindfulness, the four right
effort, the four spiritual feet, the five faculties, the five powers,
the seven enlightenment factors, the eight noble paths, the four ascetic
fruits, the four eloquence, and the six supernatural powers. For him,
those who know the truth, those who know the law, and those who know the
words, the truth is defended on the known truth, the law appears on the
known law, and the word is defended on the known word. The eloquence has
no hindrance to interpreting the wisdom, and the only enlightened person
has, completely has, reaches, completely reaches, has, fully has, and
possesses this eloquence without hindrance to the understanding, so the
only enlightened person is the eloquent. There is no learning, no
questioning , without proof, what will he defend?" as an excellent and
eloquent friend.
　　"After knowing the interests, you should get rid of doubts": "After
knowing your own interests, after knowing the interests of others, after
knowing the interests of both, after knowing the interests of the
present life, after knowing the interests of the next life, the highest
After knowing, after realizing, after understanding, after weighing,
after judging, after distinguishing, after clarifying, doubting that he
should get rid of (modify), should expel, should abandon, should drive
away, should make an end, It should be brought to non-existence." After
knowing the benefits, doubts should be removed, and one should walk
alone like a rhino's horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
"You should be close to those who have learned a lot, those who hold the
Dharma　　, good and eloquent friends.
　　　After knowing the benefits, you should get rid of doubts, and you
should walk alone like a rhino's horn.
　　" Those who become hopeless after decoration, those whose
　　　decoration state has been separated, those who are true speakers,
should walk alone like rhino horns.
　　"Amusement, joy, and sensual pleasure in the world":
"'Entertainment': There are two kinds of entertainment: physical
entertainment and verbal entertainment... (Middle abbreviation) This is
bodily entertainment... (Middle abbreviation) This is verbal
entertainment. "Pleasure", which is synonymous with being satisfied, is
"pleasure." "Desires," this is said by the Blessed One [ MN.139
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=139>]: Bhikkhus! Of these
five kinds of desires, which five? What you want, what you want, what
you want, what you want, what you want, what you want, what you want,
what you want, what is greedy, what can be recognized by the ear...
Smell, cognizable by the tongue... Tastes, cognizable by the body,
desired, loved, desirable, lovable, accompanied by lust, craving,
Bhikkhus! These are the five kinds of desires. Monks! Allthe pleasures
and joys that arise from these five kinds of desires are called sensual
pleasures. "In the world," in the world of human beings." It is the
pleasure, the pleasure, and the pleasure in the world.
　　"Without decoration, he becomes hopeless": "The entertainment and
joy and lust in the world become without decoration without decoration.
After he has given up, after he has driven away, after he has finished,
he has brought it to the end of non-existence." Become a hopeless person
without decoration.
　　"Decorative state separated person, true speaker": "[Decoration],
there are two kinds of decoration: the decoration of the lay family, and
the decoration of the non-laid family. What is the decoration of the lay
family? Hair, beards, garlands, spices, Balm, accessories (yingluo),
accessories (yingluo), clothes, head coverings, head scarves, massage,
rubbing, bathing, rubbing, mirror, eye ointment, garland spice balm,
face powder, face Paste, bracelets, ribbon hair accessories, sticks,
tubes, swords, umbrellas, colored shoes, buns, jewelry, whisks, long and
short white clothes (Thailand version), etc. These are the decorations
of the lay people.
　　What are the decorations of the non-lay people? Clothes The
decoration of the bowl, the decoration of the reclining table, the
decoration of the rotten body or the decoration of the necessities,
beautification (solemn), the desire to dress up, the state of being
well-dressed, the state of covetousness, the state of greed, the state
of impetuousness, the impetuousness and shallowness, this is wrong. The
decoration of the lay family.
　　The "True Whisperer", the One Enlightened One is the True Whisperer,
the True One, the Reliable One, the Trustworthy One, the One Who Has No
Deception in the World. The state of decoration is separated, abstained,
abstained, Leaving, leaving, liberating, and being freed from bondage,
he abides with a mind free from limitations." Those who are separated in
their decorative state, those who speak the truth, should walk alone
like the horns of a rhinoceros.
　　Because of that, the Solitary Enlightened One said,
　　"Amusement, joy, and sensual pleasure in the world, unadorned,
become hopeless, and those who
　　　have been separated from the state of decoration, those who speak
the truth, should walk alone like the horns of a rhinoceros."
　　146. Children, wives, parents, wealth and relatives,
　　　after abandoning all desires in the range, should walk alone like
rhino horns.
　　"Children, wives and parents": "'son [son]', there are four kinds of
sons: the son born by oneself, the son born in the field, the son of the
adopted son, and the son of the apprentice. The wife [son] is called the
one who should be supported (wife). "Father [parent]", that is the one
who givesbirth . "Mother [parent]", that is the one who gives birth.
"For children, wives and parents.
　　"Fortune Valley and Relatives": "Gold, gold coins, real pearls,
orbs, glass, shells, rocks, corals, silver, gold, rubies (?), and agate
are called wealth (things). Before eating, after eating quilts. Known as
grains (materials): rice, rice, barley, wheat, millet, beans, and
barnyard grains are called front food, and those suitable for curry are
called post food. "Kindness", there are four kinds of relatives: kinship
relatives are relatives, family name relatives Relatives are also
relatives, relatives of [Tongxi] scriptures are relatives, relatives of
[Tongxi] arts are also relatives.” For wealth and relatives.
　　"After abandoning all desires according to the scope": "desire",
there are two kinds of desires from the eulogy: desire for things and
desire for pollution... (middle abbreviated) these are called things'
desire... (middle abbreviated) these are called The desire to pollute.
"After giving up all desires", after he is omniscient in the desire of
things, after abandoning, after abandoning, after driving away, after
finishing, after making it come to non-existence. "After abandoning all
desires according to the scope": "Any pollution that is abandoned by the
Sudavan Path, those pollutions will no longer be experienced, returned,
and returned; all the pollutions that have been abandoned by the first
way... (Abbreviated in the middle) The pollution that has been abandoned
by the path of non-returning... Any pollution that has been abandoned by
the path of Arahant, he will no longer experience, return, and return to
the pollution." After abandoning the desires according to the scope, one
should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros. .
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Children, wives and parents, wealth and relatives,
　　　after abandoning all desires within a range, they should walk
alone like the horns of a rhinoceros."
　　147. This is dyed: here Small pleasures, less joyful ones, and more
bitterness here,
　　　like this is a fishing hook. After the enlightened person knows,
he should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"This is dyeing: the little pleasures here": "'Dyeing,' or
'crocheting,' or 'temptation,' or 'sticking,' or 'obstacle', are
synonyms for the five kinds of desires.'' "Little pleasures here." This
was said by the Blessed One: Bhikkhus! Of these five kinds of desires,
which five are there? The eye-knowing, the wanting, the beloved, the
agreeable, the lovable, the accompanying desires lustful, greed-tainted
forms... (middle abbreviated) can be touched by body-knowing, wanting,
loving, agreeable, lovable, accompanying desire, greed-tainted,
bhikkhus! These are the five Desires. Bhikkhus! Allthe pleasures and
joys that arise from these five kinds of desires are called sensual
pleasures. This pleasure is little; this pleasure is insignificant; this
pleasure is only a little; this pleasure is inferior this pleasure is
inferior; this pleasure is of inferior intention." For this is dyed: the
little pleasure here.
　　"Those who have less pleasure here are more suffering": "The
World-Honored One said: Desires with less pleasure and more suffering
and despair are more troubles here; the World-Honored One said: Desires
are like bones… Like a piece of meat... The World Honored One said:
Desire is like a grass torch... The World Honored One said: Desire is
like a pit of coal fire... The World Honored One said: Desire is like a
dream... The World Honored One said: Desire is like a borrowed thing...
The World Honored One said: Desire is like a tree and fruit... World
Honored Said: Desire is like a slaughterhouse... The World Honored One
said: Desire is like a sword and halberd... The World Honored One said:
Desire is like a snake's head, so much suffering and despair, there are
more troubles here [ MN.22
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=22>]." There is more
suffering here.
　　"Like this, this is a fishing hook, after the enlightened one knows
it": "fishing hook", or "crochet needle", or "attraction", or
"adhesion", or "obstruction", which are synonyms of the five kinds of
desires. "Like this", the continuation of sentences; the connection of
sentences; the perfection of sentences; the combination of words; the
connection of words; this is the order of sentences, "like this."
"Awakened Wisdom" means the wise, the wise, the enlightened, the wise,
the wise, and the wise. "Like this, this is a fishing hook. After the
enlightened person knows about it": "After the enlightened person knows
the "fishing hook", after knowing the "crochet needle", after knowing
the "attraction", after knowing the "adhesion", after knowing the
"binding", knowing After the 'obstruction', he understands, measures,
judges, separates, and makes clear." For this is a fishing hook, the
enlightened person should walk alone like a rhino's horn after knowing it.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"This is taint: here is little pleasure, less pleasant, here more
suffering,
　　　like this, this is a fishing hook. After the enlightened one
knows, it should be like this. Walk alone like a rhinoceros horn."
　　148. After breaking the knots, like a fish in the water after
breaking the net, and
　　　returning to the burning object like a fire, you should walk alone
like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"After breaking all the knots": There are ten kinds of knots: greed
knot, aversion knot, arrogance knot, seeing knot, doubt knot, abstinence
and prohibition, greed knot, jealousy knot, stingy knot, and ignorance
knot. "After breaking the knots": "After the ten kinds of guitars are
broken, after breaking, after abandoning, after driving away, after
finishing, and after making them cease to exist." It is after breaking
knots.
　　"Like a fish in water after breaking a net": "The net is called rope
net, the water (Salilaṃ) is called water (udakaṃ), and the fish
(Ambucārī) is called fish (maccho). , After the net is completely
broken, completely broken, it walks, lives, moves, turns, protects,
sustains, and survives. Similarly, there are two kinds of nets: the net
of craving and the net of seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle).
Aiwang... This is Jianwang. For the single enlightened person, the
craving net has been abandoned, and the Jianwang has been abandoned. In
the state where the craving net has been abandoned, the Jianwang has
been abandoned. The state of the Enlightened One is not attached to the
form, the sound, and the smell... (abbreviated in the middle) in the
dharmas that he sees, smells, feels, and can be known He is not
attached, not caught, not bound, not bound all over [, not stupefied],
he is freed, freed, liberated, freed from bondage, he lives with a mind
free from being restricted.” After breaking the net for fish like water.
　　"Like a fire that does not turn back to what is burnt": "Like a fire
that burns straw fuel, it goes and does not turn back. Likewise, for the
Enlightened One, all the contaminations that have been abandoned by the
Sudavana path are those Contamination he no longer experiences, does not
retreat, and does not go back; he has come to the Tao... (middle
abbreviated) and will not return to the Tao... Any pollution that has
been abandoned by the Arahant Tao will no longer be experienced,
returned, and returned." In order to return to the burning object like
fire, one should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"After breaking the knots, like a fish in the water after breaking a
net, like a
　　　fire that does not turn back to what was burned, one should walk
alone like the horn of a rhinoceros."
　　149. Eyes down Those who don’t wander, those who guard their roots,
those who protect their minds,
　　　those who don’t leak, those who don’t get burned, should walk
alone like a rhino’s horn.
　　"Eyes down and those who don't wander": "What is the confusion of
the eyes? Here, the monks are those with unsteady eyes, those with
unsteady eyes: 'What should be seen becomes unseen, and what should be
crossed becomes seen "From garden to garden, from garden to garden, from
village to village, from town to town, from city to city, from country
to country, and from place to place, he saw long processions and
irregular processions in various ways. the practitioner, so the eyes are
confused.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor within the lay, a street walker, he
walks unprotected: he walks looking at the elephant, at the horse, at
the chariot, at the The infantryman, looking at the boy, looking at the
girl, looking at the woman, looking at the man, looking at the market,
looking at the door of the house, looking up, looking down, looking
around in all directions, this is also a confused eye
　　. After seeing the form with the eyes, he becomes the grasper of the
appearance and the grasper of the subtle appearance. For that reason,
when the unprotectedness of the eye root, the evil and unwholesome
dharmas of greed and worry will flow in, and he does not act according
to his self-control. If you don’t protect the eye-faculty, do not
achieve self-control on the eye-faculty, then the eyes will be confused.
　　Or, as some recluses and brahmins receive the food of faith, they
live in the practitioners who perform and watch like this, namely:
dancing, singing, music , drama, ancient telling, hand bell, cymbal,
drum, magic, iron ball, bamboo stick, stunt, elephant fight, horse
fight, buffalo fight, bull fight, goat fight, ram fight, rooster fight,
quail fight, stick fight Fight, fistfight, wrestling, drill, parade,
formation, parade [ DN.1
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=1>, Paragraph 13], etc.,
it is a practitioner who is watching various performances like this, and
it is also confusing to the eyes.
　　How are the eyes down? Here, a bhikkhu is not one who has a restless
eye, who does not possess a restless eye: "What should be seen becomes
unseen, and what should be crossed becomes seen. 』Not from garden to
garden, not from garden to garden, not from village to village, not from
town to town, not from city to city, not from country to country, not
from place to place. practitioner. This is the eyes down.
　　Or, when a bhikkhu is a visitor in the lay house, a walker in the
streets, he walks defensively: he does not walk while watching the
elephant, not the horse, not the chariot, not the infantry, not the boy.
, don't look at girls, don't look at women, don't look at men, don't
look at the market, don't look at the door of the house, don't look at
the top, don't look down, don't look around in all directions, so the
eyes are down.
　　Or, after a bhikkhu sees a form with his eyes, he does not become a
grasper of features or a grasper of subtle features. For that reason,
the evil and unwholesome dharmas of greed and worry will flow into the
one who resides in the root of the eye and has no self-control. He goes
to the system for that, guards the eye root, and on the eye root comes
to self-control [ SN.35.120
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.120>], which is also
eye down.
　　Or for example, after some ascetic and brahmins received food, they
lived in the avoidance of watching performances like this, that is:
dancing, singing, music... (abbreviated in the middle) military parades,
etc., are the avoidance of watching performances like this , this is
also the eyes down.
　　"With those who do not wander", what is wandering? Here, a certain
type of bhikkhu is a wanderer, with wandering properties: from garden to
garden, from garden to garden, from village to village, from town to
town, from city to city, from country to country, from place to place,
he lives Participants in long processions and irregular processions.
This is wandering.
　　Or a monk who wanders in the monastery, has wandering qualities: he
goes from the monk's room to the monk's room without a peaceful mind,
from the residence to the residence, from the half-roofed room to the
halfway. The roof house, from high-rise to high-rise, from flat to flat,
from cave to cave, from cave to cave, from hut to hut, from heavy
pavilion to heavy pavilion, from observatory to observatory , from tent
to tent, from hut to hut, from lecture hall to lecture hall, from round
house to round house, from tree to tree, or where the monks sat down, he
went there, there Be second to one, or third to two, or fourth to three.
There, chatting a lot of obscenities, namely: the king's theory, the
thief's theory... (abbreviated in the middle), saying that there is no
such thing, etc., this is also wandering.
　　"With those who do not wander," the Enlightened One who has been
separated from wandering, has abstained from, has abstained from, has
renounced, has left, has been liberated, has been freed from fetters,
and enjoys solitude with a mind free from limitations. Those who sit,
those who like to sit alone, those who practice inner stillness, those
who do not despise Zen, those who have the ability to watch, those who
benefit from empty houses, those who meditate, those who love Zen, those
who practice unity, and those who respect their own interests. ' for the
eyes down and not wandering.
　　"Those who protect the roots, protect the mind": "The one who
protects the roots", "The one who is alone and enlightened after seeing
the form with his eyes will not become a grasper of appearances, and a
grasper of subtle appearances. For that reason, greed, Worry, evil and
unwholesome dharmas will flow into the one who lives in the root of the
eye without self-control. He goes to the system for that, guards the
root of the eye, comes to self-control on the root of the eye, listens
to the sound with the ear... (Abbreviated in the middle) After smelling
the smell with the nose ...after tasting the taste with the
tongue...after the touch of the body...after knowing the Dharma with
consciousness, one will not become a grasper of signs or a grasper of
details. It flows into the one who lives in the mind without
self-control. He moves toward self-control for that, guards the mind,
and comes to self-control on the mind." For the one who guards the mind.
"The one who protects the mind" is the one who guards the mind."
Protective.
　　"Those who have no leakage, [do not] be burned all over": "'This was
said by the Venerable [ SN.35.243
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=35.243>]: 'Students!
Listen to it! You have to be careful! I will tell you." His Holiness
said this:
　　"Students! What is a leaker? Academies! Here, after seeing the form,
the monks aim for all the lovely forms, reject the unlovable forms, and
dwell in the unrecognized, little The liberation of the mind, and the
liberation of the mind, and the liberation of wisdom that do not know
the truth: the evil and unwholesome dharmas that arise in him are
inexhaustibly destroyed; after listening to the sound with the ear...
(abbreviated in the middle) After knowing the dharma with consciousness,
I aim for all kinds of lovely and beautiful things. Dharma, repelling
all unlovable forms of Dharma, dwelling in the unrecognized,
unrecognized, and unrealistic mind liberation, wisdom liberation: those
evil and unwholesome dharmas that arise are inexhaustible, students!
This is called a bhikkhu who is a leaker in the forms that can be
recognized by the eyes... (Abbreviated in the middle) is a leaker in the
Dhamma that can be recognized by consciousness. Fellow students! When a
monk is living like this, if the demons approach from the eyes He, the
devil will get the opportunity, the devil will get the object; if the
devil approaches him from the ear... (abbreviated in the middle) If the
devil approaches him from the will, the devil will get the opportunity,
and the devil will get the object.
　　Fellow students! A reed or thatched hut, if a man approaches it with
a burning torch from the east, the fire has a chance, and the fire has
an object; if a man comes from the west... (omitted) if from the
north...if from the south...if from below... If from above...if a man
approaches it with a burning torch from whichever direction, fire gets a
chance, fire gets an object. Likewise, fellow students! When a monk
lives like this, if the demon approaches him from the eye, the demon
gets a chance , the demon gets the object; if the demon follows the
ear... (Abbreviated in the middle) If the demon wants to approach him,
the demon gets the opportunity, the demon gets the object.
　　Fellow students! When living like this, form conquers monks,
non-bhikkhu conquers color; sound conquers monks , not the monk conquers
the voice; smell conquers the monk, not the monk conquers the smell;
taste conquers the monk, not the monk conquers the taste; touch conquers
the monk, not the monk conquers the touch; Dharma conquers the monk, not
the monk conquers the Dharma, students! This is called! For the monk who
is conquered by form, by sound, by smell, by taste, by touch, by Dhamma;
conquered, not conqueror; polluted, regenerated, afflicted, bitterly
rewarded In the future, he will be killed by the evil and unwholesome
methods of life, old age and death. Xueyou! This is a leaker.
　　Alumni! How is it not a leaker? Alumni! Here, after seeing form with
the eyes, the bhikkhu does not aspire to the lovely forms, does not
reject the unlovable forms, dwells in the mind that has arisen in the
body, the immeasurable mind, and truly knows the liberation of the mind
and the liberation of wisdom: those The evil and unwholesome dharmas
that arise are inexhaustible; after hearing the sound with the ear...
(abbreviated in the middle) after knowing the dharma with consciousness,
do not aspire to the dharmas of all lovely forms, do not reject the
dharmas of all unlovable forms, and dwell in the mind of the body What
has arisen, immeasurable mind, knows the liberation of mind, liberation
of wisdom as it really is: those evil and unwholesome dharmas that arise
are inexhaustible, students! This is called a bhikkhu who does not leak
in the forms that can be recognized by the eyes... (abbreviated in the
middle) is not a leaker in the dharma that can be recognized by
consciousness. Alumni! When a bhikkhu lives like this, if the demons
approach him from the eyes, the demons will neither get the opportunity
nor the object; if the demons approach him from the ears... (omitted),
if the demons approach him willingly, the demons will neither get the
opportunity, nor will the demons get the chance. object is not available.
　　Alumni! Like a lecture hall with a heavy pavilion or a new coating
of thick clay, if a man approaches it with a burning torch from the
east, the fire will neither get a chance nor an object; if it is from
the west... ...if from the south...if from below...if from above...if a
man approaches it with a burning torch from either direction, the fire
has neither a chance nor an object. Likewise, fellow students! When a
bhikkhu lives like this, if the demons approach him from the eyes, the
demons will neither get the opportunity nor the object... (Abbreviated
in the middle) If the demons approach him willingly, the demons will
neither get the opportunity nor the object.
　　Alumni! When living like this, a monk conquers form, but not form; a
monk conquers sound, but not sound; a monk conquers smell, but not
smell; a monk conquers taste, but not taste; a monk conquers touch, not
touch Bhikkhus; Bhikkhus conquer the Dharma, illegally conquer Bhikkhus,
fellow students! This is called the bhikkhu who conquers form, conquers
sound, conquers smell, conquers taste, conquers touch, conquers dharma;
the conqueror, not the conquered; he conquers the polluted, the reborn,
the sorrowful, the bitter The evil and unwholesome dharma that will be
born and die in the future. Alumni! This is not a leaker. "" for those
who have no leakage.
　　"Those who are not scorched all over" are those who are not scorched
by the scorching heat of greed; those who are not scorched by the
scorching heat of anger; those who are not scorched by the scorching
heat of delusion. "For those who have no leakage and who are not burnt
all over, they should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Those whose eyes are downward and those who do not wander, those
who guard the roots, those who guard the mind,
　　　those who have no leakage, and those who are not burnt all over,
should walk alone like the horns of a rhinoceros."
　　150. After taking down the mark of the lay family, like a day
treecovered with leaves , 　　　after [wearing] a robe and robe, one
should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.

　　"After taking the mark of the lay family": hair, beard... (slightly
in the middle) long and short white clothes (Thailand version) and so on
are called the mark of the lay family. "After taking the mark of the lay
family": "After the mark of the lay family is abandoned, completely
abandoned, put down, and ceased." After taking the mark of the lay family.
　　"As a day tree covered with leaves": "As a daytime ebony tree with
dense leaves and thick shade, likewise, the single enlightened one is a
full mantle-bearer." Day tree with leaves.
　　"[Writing] After the robe and robes became ordained": "The
Enlightened One has cut off all obstacles to the home, cut off the
obstacles of children and wives, cut off the obstacles of relatives, cut
off the obstacles of friends, cut off the obstacles of storage After the
obstacles, after shaving the hair and beard, after wrapping in the
cassock clothes, after becoming a homeless person after becoming a
homeless person, starting to become a state of nothingness, walking,
living, moving, turning around, guarding, making existence, making
existence. "For [wearing] robes and robes, after becoming a monk, you
should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said, "After taking down the
mark of 　　the lay family 　　　, you should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn
　　, like a day tree covered with leaves . [completed]. Notes: 　1. Go
to see → reach a decision → obtain the Tao → be born with wisdom → not
be guided by others.






　2. No greed, deceit, longing, no hidden evil, no evil, defilement and
ignorance from all worldly desires. (Zangheng, jealousy, deceit, and
deceit)
　3. Avoid evil companions (be unprofitable, unrighteous, enthusiastic,
and loose), and be close to those who are knowledgeable, law-bearers,
and excellent and eloquent friends.
　4. Amusement, joy, and lust are the hooks, away from decoration: no
expectations, truthful words, guarding the root (no wandering under the
eyes), guarding the mind, no leakage, and no burning.
　5. The broken knot is like a fish breaking the net, and the fire does
not return to the burned material.
　12/5/2020 11:02
Commentary:
　　 "Giving to the born" (janako), a masculine word, equals father.
　　 "The one who gives birth" (janikā), the feminine word, is equal to
the mother.
　　 "Daytime tree" (pārichattako), Ni.36
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni36.htm>as "ebony tree" (koviḷāro),
AN.7.69 <https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.69>as "daytime
ebony tree" (pāricchattako koviḷāro). MA.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MA/dm.php?keyword=2>says that when one goes
out of the home in a cassock and robe, the leaves fall within the
thirty-three days, and the realization of liberation is the same as when
the tree is fully spread during the day ( the same is true for AA.39.2
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AA/dm.php?keyword=39.2>/ AN.7.69
<https://agama.buddhason.org/AN/an.php?keyword=7.69>). The "day tree
covered with leaves" here is equivalent to the "full bloom" (flowers
blooming) of MA.2 . <https://agama.buddhason.org/MA/dm.php?keyword=2>
