Translation (translated by Zhuang Chunjiang)
The fourth grade
　　151. In terms of taste, it is not a greedy person, a greedy person,
a person who does not raise other people, a beggar in order,
　　　not bound in a family center, and should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　"In terms of taste, I am not a greedy person, and I am not a greedy
person": """Taste (flavor)", there are root, branch, skin, leaf, flower,
fruit, sour, sweet, bitter, Spicy, salty, alkaline, sour, astringent,
delicious, non-delicious, cold, hot, some ascetic, brahmins are taste
cravings, they wander with their tongues looking for the best taste,
they get sour After seeking no sourness, after obtaining no sourness,
seeking sourness; after obtaining sweetness, seeking no sweetness,
obtaining no sweetness, seeking sweetness; obtaining bitterness, seeking
no bitterness, and obtaining no bitterness, seeking bitterness; After
obtaining the spicy taste, search for no spicy taste, and after
obtaining the non-spicy taste, search for the spicy taste; after
obtaining the salty taste, search for no salty taste, obtain the
saltless taste, and search for the salty taste; After obtaining the sour
taste, search for the astringent taste; after obtaining the astringent
taste, search for the sour taste; after obtaining the delicious taste,
search for the non-delicious taste; after obtaining the non-delicious
taste, search for the delicious taste; Those who seek coolness over and
over again, every time they get it, because of dissatisfaction, they
seek it over and over again. They are greedy, greedy, tied, infatuated,
dyed, attached, fixed, and obstructed in terms of desirable tastes. For
the one who is enlightened, this taste craving has been abandoned, the
root has been cut off, [like] a palm tree with its roots cut off, and it
has become non-existent, something that will not be born in the future.
Therefore, the one who is alone is The enlightened one eats food after
careful examination: "Neither for entertainment, nor for pride, nor for
adornment, norfor solemnity , but only for the survival and survival of
this body, to stop harm, to support holy life, like this , I will repel
previous sensations, and not cause new sensations to arise, I will have
my existence, and a state of innocence, and abiding in peace."
　　As he anointed wounds only for the purpose of healing, [also] or, as
he anointed the axles with oil only for the purpose of transporting
goods [, or], as if he ate the food of the flesh of his son only for the
sake of the desert off purpose. In the same way, the Enlightened One ate
food after careful examination: "Neither for entertainment, nor for
pride, nor for adornment, nor for solemnity, but only for the survival
and survival of this body, for the cessation of harm, To aid the holy
life, like this, I will fight off previous feelings, and not cause new
ones to arise, and have my existence, and a state of innocence, and
well-being." Separated from craving for taste, abstained from
Abstinence, abstinence, renunciation, departure, liberation, and
bondage, he abides with a mind free from limitations. ' In order not to
be a covet in taste.
　　"Those who are not greedy", greed is called craving, that is greed,
greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated) greed, the root of greed is
unwholesome. That covetousness, that craving, has been renounced, the
root has been cut off, [as] the root of the palm tree has become
non-existent, for the future unborn thing, for the One Enlightened One,
therefore, the One Those who are enlightened are those who are not
greedy. "In order to not be a greedy person or a greedy person in terms
of taste.
　　"Those who don't feed others, those who beg for food": "Those who
don't feed others", "The one who is enlightened only feeds himself, not
others."
　　"Those who don't feed others, those who know, have The one who is in
control, the one who has settled at the core, the one who
　　　has exhausted all the blemishes
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ud/dm.php?keyword=6>
, the one 　　who has eliminated faults, I say he is a Brahman. When the
enlightened person puts on his clothes and takes his robe and bowl
before noon, he has guarded his body, guarded by his speech, guarded by
his heart, shown his mind, and guarded by his various faculties. In
order to enter a village or town on the altar, his eyes are down. Those
who are well behaved and behave, go from home to home without crossing
the ground for almsgiving.” For those who do not raise others, those who
beg for alms one after another.
　　"Being unbound in the center of a family": the mind is bound in two
ways: to make oneself humble, to make others noble and to be bound, or
to make others humble, and to make oneself noble and bound . How is it
to make oneself humble and make others noble while the heart is bound?
[Thinking:] "You are very helpful to me, I depend on you to get clothes,
food, shelter, things the sick need, medical necessities, and all other
givers or want to do they think I depend on you. For you, all the names
that I had come from my parents, have disappeared to me, because of you
I was known as the one who frequented [a] house like that; the one who
frequented [a] house." Thus It is to make oneself humble, to make others
noble and bound.
　　What is it to make others humble, to make oneself noble and to be
restrained? [Thinking:] "I am very beneficial to you. Because of me, you
have turned to the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha, and you have
become those who are free from killing, those who are free from giving
and taking, those who are free from sexual misconduct, those who are
free from lying, and those who are free from lying. Grain wine, fruit
wine, and wine, I will give you instructions, give you inquiries,
explain Busa, and build monasteries. However, after you abandoned me,
you respected, respected, respected, and revered others.” Make others
humble, make oneself noble and shackled.
　　"Being free in the center of a house": "The mind of the Enlightened
One is not restrained by the hindrance of the home; the mind is not
restrained by the hindrance of the group; the mind is not restrained by
the hindrance of the abode; the mind is not restrained by the hindrance
of clothes The mind is not bound by the obstacles of group food; the
mind is not bound by the obstacles of the place of residence; the mind
is not bound by the obstacles of the patient's needs, medical
necessities." .
　　Because of that, the Solitary Enlightened One said,
　　"In terms of taste, one should not be a greedy person, not a greedy
person, a person who does not nurture others, a beggar one after
another, one who
　　　is not bound in the center of a house, and should walk alone like
a rhinoceros horn.
　　152. After abandoning the five hindrances of the mind, after all the
kilesas have been expelled, and after
　　　cutting off the love and hatred of the undependent, one should
walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　"After abandoning the five hindrances of the mind": "The only
enlightened one, whose desires are overshadowed by his abandonment,
abandonment, expulsion, completion, and non-existence, is maliciously
overshadowed by... Sleeping over the cover... Abandoning the regret
cover... Doubt cover after abandoning it, after abandoning it, after
driving it away, after the end of the work, after making it go to
non-existence, after leaving desire, after leaving the unwholesome
dharma, and entering the afterlife In the first jhāna of search and
attention, joy and happiness arise from separation." This is the
hindrance of letting go of the five hindrances of the mind.
　　"After all the defilements are cast out": Greed is the defilement of
the mind; hatred is the defilement of the mind; delusion is the
defilement of the mind; With contamination. "After all the defilements
of the mind are cast out": "After all the defilements of the mind are
cast out, removed, discarded, cast away, brought to an end, and brought
to non-existence." After the kilesas are cast out.
　　"The undependent one cuts off love and hatred": "The undependent",
there are two kinds of dependence: the dependence of craving and the
dependence of view... (Omitted) This is the dependence of craving...
(Omitted) This is the reliance on seeing. "Love", there are two kinds of
love: the love of craving and the love of seeing... (Middle
abbreviation) This is the love of craving... (Middle abbreviation) This
is the love of seeing. "Hatred", that is hatred of the mind, hostility,
aversion, hostility, hatred, anger, provocation, hatred, hatred,
wickedness , anger, state of anger, hatred, anger, state of anger [,
opposition, hostility], brutal anger, rage, displeasure of the heart.
"After the undependant cut off love and hatred": "The love of craving
and the love of seeing and hatred are cut off, cut off, abandoned,
driven away, put to an end, made to be After reaching non-existence,
those who do not rely on the eyes; those who do not rely on the ears...
(Abbreviated in the middle) those who do not rely on the Dharma that can
be seen, heard, and aware The one who heads towards (the solution of
victory) has left, has left, been liberated, and has been freed from
bondage, and he lives with a mind free from restrictions." After cutting
off love and hatred for the undependable, it should be like the horn of
a rhinoceros walk alone.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"After the five hindrances of the mind are renounced, after all the
defilements have been cast out,
　　　After cutting off love and hatred, the helpless should walk alone
like a rhino's horn.
　　153. After putting aside joy and suffering, as well as previous joys
and sorrows, and attaining
pure 　　　peace and samatha, one should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"After setting aside pleasure and suffering, as well as the joys and
sorrows that preceded it": "The Enlightened One who abandons pleasure
and renunciation from suffering, the former joys and sorrows are
extinguished, and after entering, he abides in neither suffering nor
neither. Pleasure, the fourth jhāna of peace and mindfulness." To put
aside the joys and sorrows after the joys and sorrows.
　　"After attaining pure peace, samatha": "peace", that is peace in the
fourth jhāna, unconcernedness, spectatorship, equanimity of mind,
tranquil state of mind, neutrality of mind state. "Samatha", that is the
stillness of the mind, stability, stability, undisturbed, steady mind,
samatha, concentration, concentration, right concentration. Peace and
samāta in the fourth jhāna are pure, pure [, completely pure,
ubiquitously pure], pure, uncontaminated, free from defilements, soft,
fit for work, abiding , reach immobile. "After attaining pure peace,
after samatha": "Peace in the fourth jhāna, after samatha attained,
after attaining [, after attaining], after possessing, after receiving."
For attaining pure tranquility, after samatha Afterwards, you should
walk alone like a rhino horn.
　　Because of that, the Solitary Enlightened One said,
　　"After setting aside the joys and sorrows, as well as the former
joys and sorrows, and after
　　　attaining pure peace and samatha, one should walk alone like the
horn of a rhinoceros."
　　154. For the highest good Those who have gained the energy and have
been activated, those who do not shrink in their hearts, those who do
not slack in their actions, those who are
　　　firm in their efforts, who have fortitude and strength, should
walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　"One whose vitality has been activated for the attainment of the
highest good": "The highest good is called immortality, nirvana, the
cessation of all actions, the cessation of all attachments, the
cessation of craving, the cessation of greed, cessation, and nirvana For
the sake of attaining, attaining, receiving, reaching, contacting,
witnessing, for the renunciation of unwholesome dharmas, for the
fulfillment of wholesome dharmas, abiding in the energized, resolute,
staunchly striving, in all good dharmas Those who do not let go of their
burdens." Those whose vitality has been activated for the highest gain.
　　"He who does not flinch in heart and who does not slack in action":
"The one who is enlightened alone makes will, exerts, energizes, devotes
his mind, and diligently to the non-arising of evil and unwholesome
dharmas that have not arisen; Abandoning...(middle abbreviated) for the
arising of good things that have not arisen...(middle abbreviation) for
the continuation, unforgetfulness, enlargement, fulfillment, perfection
of practice of the good things that have arisen, so that the will
arises, strives, activates the vitality, and devotes the whole heart ,
diligent." This is the person who does not shrink back in heart and who
does not slack in behavior.
　　Or, "I would rather have only skin, tendons, and bones left; let the
flesh and blood of the body dry up, as long as one's perseverance, human
strength, human vitality, and human effort should be achieved but not
achieved, there will be no cessation of vitality." SN.12.22
<https://agama.buddhason.org/SN/sn.php?keyword=12.22>]” He is dedicated
and diligent, so he is also one who does not flinch in heart and who
does not slack in behavior.
　　"I shall neither eat nor drink, nor go out of my dwelling,
　　　nor shall I fall down (relieve) until the arrow of craving has not
been cast out." [Thag.223]
　　He is devoted and diligent, and so is his heart Those who don't back
down and those who don't slack off.
　　"As long as my mind is freed from all strays afterbeing freed from
clinging, I will not break this cross-legged! [ MN.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=32>]" He is dedicated and
diligent, so he is also one who does not shrink back in mind and who
does not slack in behavior.
　　"As long as my mind is not non-attached, it will be free from all
leakagesFreed, I will not rise from this seat. "He is dedicated and
diligent, so he is also one who does not shrink in heart and who does
not slack in behavior.
　　"I won't go down from the road... (Abbreviated) I won't go out from
the residence... I won't go out from the half-roofed house... I won't go
out from the tall building... I won't go out from the bungalow... I Will
not go out of the cave...I will not go out of the cave...I will not go
out from the hut (solitary mansion)...I will not go out from the heavy
pavilion...I will not go out from the watchtower...I will not go out
from the circle Going out of the house...I will not go out from the
shack...I will not go out from the lecture hall...I will not go out from
the tent...As long as my mind is notdisengaged and freed from the
defilements, I will not go out from under the tree Go out." He is
dedicated and diligent, so he is also one who does not shrink back in
heart and who does not slack in behavior.
　　"Just before this noon I shall attain, fully attain, attain, reach,
and bear witness to the Holy Dharma." "Just at this noon... (in the
middle) in the evening... (in the middle) before the meal... after the
meal... the night before... the middle of the night... the night... at
the time of the black moon... at the time of the white moon... in the
rainy season. time...in winter...in summer...in youth...in middle
age...in old age I shall attain, fully attain, attain, touch, bear
witness to the Dharma." He was devoted, diligent, This is also the
person who does not flinch in heart and who does not slack in behavior.
　　"One who is steadfast in effort, one who has fortitude and
strength": ""The single enlightened one was a firm recipient of good
Dharma, doing good deeds in body, speech, mind, giving and sharing,
receiving and upholding precepts, Bhusa near dwelling, filial piety to
mother, filial piety to father, reverence to recluses, reverence to
brahmins, reverence to the eldest of the family, certain recipients who
have increased their abode in the Dharma [ DN.30]
<https://agama.buddhason.org/DN/dm.php?keyword=30>].” For the one who
strives firmly. “The one who has fortitude and strength”, the one who is
fully enlightened has, fully has, reaches, fully reaches, has, fully
has, has fortitude, strength, vigor, effort (valor), wisdom .” For those
who are sturdy and striving, fortitude and strength, they should walk
alone like the horns of a rhino.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"Those who have been activated for the highest interests, those who
do not flinch in their hearts, those who are not slack in their actions,
those who work
　　　hard, those who have fortitude and strength, should walk alone
like the horn of a rhinoceros."
　　155. Those who sit alone, no Those who ignore the Zen, who always
follow the Dharma, and who
　　　have examined the patient in all things, should walk alone like
the horns of a rhinoceros.
　　"One who sits alone, who does not ignore Zen": "'The one who is
enlightened alone is one who enjoys sitting alone, who loves sitting
alone, who practices inner stillness, who does not despise Zen, who has
the ability to see, who enriches the empty house. MN.32
<https://agama.buddhason.org/MN/dm.php?keyword=32>, para. 334],
meditator, meditator, practitioner of oneness, reverence of one's own
interests.' is the one who sits by himself. The aspect does not ignore
jhāna: "For the arising of the unborn first jhāna to be yoke, strongly
yoke, fully yoke [, towards the upper yoke], fully towards the upper
yoke, or for the unborn second jhāna . . . ... (abbreviated in the
middle) or for those who have not arisen the third jhāna...or for the
arising of the fourth jhāna to become yoke, strongly yoke, fully yoke [,
towards upper yoke], fully yoke .' This means that he does not ignore
jhāna.
　　Or, he has practiced, practiced, and practiced the first jhāna, or
the second jhāna has arisen... (abbreviated in the middle), or the third
jhāna has arisen... or the fourth jhāna has arisen and he practiced. ,
practice, and do more, so that he does not ignore Zen." He is a person
who sits alone and who does not ignore Zen.
　　"Those who always follow the Dharma in the Dharma": the four
mindfulness... (abbreviated in the middle) The Eightfold Noble Path is
called Dharma. What is random law? The right path [, the path of
obedience], the path that is not reversed, the path that is as it means,
the path that follows the law, the perfection of the precepts, the
guarding of the gates on the roots, the one who knows the right amount
of food and drink, the one who specializes in sobriety , mindfulness and
clear knowledge, these are called Dhamma. "Constantly following the
Dharma in the Dharma": "Constantly in the Dharma; constant time;
constantly; continuously; uninterrupted; continuous; the waves of water
arise without gaps; continuously accompany and touch; Before noon, noon,
first night, middle night, and late night; in the dark moon, bright
moon, and rainy season, in winter, in summer; in youth, middle age, and
old age, he walks, lives, moves, turns, guards, and uses To survive, to
survive.” It is one who always follows the Dharma in the Dharma.
　　"I have examined the patient on all beings": ""All things are
impermanent." I have examined the patient on all things; ) "Any
collection of dharmas is a dharma of annihilation." In order to
investigate the patient in all existences, one should walk alone like a
rhino's horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"Those who sit alone, who do not ignore Zen, who always follow the
Dharma and who
　　　have examined patients in all things, should walk alone like the
horns of a rhinoceros."
　　156. Hope Those who quench cravings, those who do not let go, those
who are wise, those who hear, those who are
　　　mindful, those who perceive the Dhamma, those who decide, those
who are diligent, should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　"Those who desire the quenching of craving, those who do not let
go": "'Desire' is the craving of lust... (the middle abbreviated)
craving of Dharma. extinction of delusion, extinction of delusion,
extinction of destination, extinction of rebirth, extinction of rebirth,
extinction of rebirth, extinction of samsara, extinction of samsara,
seeker, wanter, receiver , those who desire, those who pray." For those
who desire the annihilation of cravings. "Those who do not let loose",
that single enlightened person is a respectful author, a constant
author... (Abbreviated in the middle) In the good Dharma [do not neglect
the responsibility and] those who do not let loose.” For those who
desire the annihilation of cravings, those who do not let loose.
　　"The wise, the learned, the thoughtful": "'The wise (not deaf and
dumb)', the only enlightened one is the wise, the wise, the enlightened,
the wise, the wise, the wise "The One Who Hears Much", the Enlightened
One is the one who hears much, the one who remembers what he hears, the
one who accumulates what he hears, all those who are good at the
beginning, good in the middle, and good at the end; meaningful and
written , to explain the Dharma of the holy life that is completely
consummated and pure, such Dharma has been heard a lot, remembered,
memorized, observed with the heart, and penetrated by seeing the good.
Those who have the highest mindfulness and intelligence are those who
remember and remember what was done and said long ago." They are the
wise, the learned, and the mindful.
　　"Those who perceive the Dharma, those who decide, and those who are
diligent": "The perception of the Dharma is called wisdom, which is
wisdom, knowledge and understanding... (abbreviated in the middle)
without delusion, choosing the Dharma, and right view. "The perceiver of
the Dharma" The single enlightened one is the discerner of the law, the
knower of the law, the measurer of the law, the judge of the law, the
clearer of the law, the comprehension of the law: the observer of the
law of "all actions are impermanent" A person who understands...
(Abbreviated in the middle) "Any collection of dharmas is a way of
destroying dharma." Those who perceive the dharma, know the dharma,
measure the dharma, judge the dharma, understand the dharma, and
understand the dharma. Or, To the one who is enlightened alone is the
{convergent} of the aggregates [the one who perceives, Ni.18
<https://agama.buddhason.org/Ni/Ni18.htm>- the same below], the one who
perceives the world, the one who perceives the place, the one who
perceives the place of interest, the one who rebirths The one who
realizes, the one who realizes rebirth, there is one who realizes, the
one who realizes samsara, the one who realizes samsara. Or, the single
enlightened one is the abiding one at the ultimate (boundary) of
aggregates, The ultimate dweller in the world, the ultimate dweller in
the place, the ultimate dweller in the place of interest, the ultimate
dweller in the rebirth, the ultimate dweller in the rebirth, the
ultimate dweller in the existence, the ultimate dweller in The ultimate
dweller of samsara, the ultimate dweller of samsara, the ultimate
dweller, the last dweller, the last one who gathers (body), the one who
holds the last body "
　　This is his last being, this is his last gathering (body), the cycle
of birth and
　　　death, without his rebirth."
　　For this reason, the Enlightened One is the Enlightened One of
Dhamma. "The one who decides", the Four Noble Paths are called decision,
and the "one who possesses the Four Noble Paths" is the one who decides.
He has achieved, fully achieved, reached, reached, and testified to the
decision. "Industrious", diligence is called vitality, which is the
stimulation of the vitality of the heart, diligence, effort, courage,
diligence, effort, diligence, fortitude, firmness of mind, a state of
courage without relaxation, a state of desire not to give up, and a
state of indomitable spirit. The state of neglecting responsibility, the
support of responsibility, vitality, vitality root, vitality force,
right effort. The Enlightened One has, fully has, reached, fully
reached, fully, fully completed, has this diligence, so the Enlightened
One is the diligent. "Those who perceive the Dhamma, those who decide,
and those who are diligent, should walk alone like the horn of a
rhinoceros.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Those who desire the quencher of craving, those who do not let go,
those who are wise, those who hear, those who are
　　　mindful, those who perceive the Dhamma, those who decide, those
who are diligent, should be like a rhinoceros. He walks alone like a horn."
　　157. If a lion is not afraid of sound, if the wind is not attached
to a net, and
　　　if a red lotus is not contaminated with water, he should walk
alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"Like a lion is one who is not afraid of sound": "Like a lion, the
king of beasts is one who is not afraid of sound, one who is not afraid
of sound, one who is not afraid, one who is not frightened, one who is
not suspicious, one who is not afraid, one who is not afraid, one who is
not afraid of sound , who is not afraid, who does not flee, the one who
is enlightened is also the one who is not afraid of sound, who is not
afraid, who is not afraid, who is not frightened, who is not afraid, who
is not afraid, who is not cowardly, who is not frightened Those who do
not fear, those who do not flee, dwell in those who have given up fear
and fear, and stand erect from their hairs.” Like a lion, those who are
not afraid of voices.
　　"Like the wind, the net is not stuck": "Wind, east wind, west wind,
north wind, south wind, dusty wind, dustless wind, cold wind, hot wind ,
small wind, great wind, swift wind, cross wind, Garuda wind, Doro leaf
wind, fan wind. The net is called the rope net. If the wind does not
stick to the net, it will not be caught. , Not to be bound, not to be
bound by all, in the same way, there are two kinds of nets: the net of
craving and the net of seeing... (Abbreviated in the middle) This is the
net of craving... This is the net of seeing. For the single enlightened
person The net of craving has been cut off, the net of seeing has been
cut off, and in the state where the net of craving has been cut off, the
net of seeing has been cut off, the single enlightened one is not
attached to form, but to sound. Not attached to the top... (Middle
abbreviation) In the dharmas that you see, hear, feel, and can know ,
has been liberated, has been freed from the bondage, he lives with a
mind free from being restricted." As the wind is one who is not clinging
to the net.
　　"For example, the red lotus is one that is not contaminated with
water": "The red lotus is called the red lotus, and the water (Toyaṃ) is
called the water (udakaṃ). If the red lotus is not contaminated with
water, is not strongly contaminated, and is not closely contaminated, it
is no longer contaminated. , no longer strongly attached, no longer
closely attached, in the same way, there are two kinds of clinging: the
clinging of [due to] craving and the clinging of [due to] seeing...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the clinging of craving...
(Abbreviated in the middle) This is the attachment to seeing. For the
Enlightened One, the attachment to craving has been abandoned, the
attachment to seeing has been abandoned, and the attachment to craving
has been abandoned. The state, the state of seeing that the attachment
has been cut off, the single enlightened person is not contaminated with
the form, and the sound is not contaminated... No contamination, no
strong contamination, no close contamination on all dharmas And stay."
To be like a red lotus, one should walk alone like a rhino's horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Like a lion, one who is not afraid of sounds, like a wind, one who
is not attached to a net, and
　　　like a red lotus, one who is not contaminated with water, one
should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn."
　　158. For example, the king of lions and beasts is a man with strong
teeth, a man who oppresses and conquers, and
　　　should use the edge of the land, and he should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　"Like the lion and the king of beasts, who have powerful teeth, who
oppress and conquer": "Like the king of lions and beasts, who have
powerful teeth and use teeth as weapons, among all the creatures that
fall into the beasts, he conquers, defeats, overwhelms, and ends. After
being crushed, he walks, dwells, moves, turns, guards, sustains, and
survives. The one who is alone and enlightened is also the one with the
power of wisdom and the one who uses wisdom as a weapon. Among all
beings, he strikes with wisdom. Victory, defeated, overwhelmed,
terminated, crushed, and then moved, held, moved, turned, guarded,
sustained, and survived.” Like a lion and a beast king, he is a man with
powerful teeth, a man who oppresses and conquers.
　　"Should use frontier dwellings": "If the lion and beast kings enter
the forests and wild forests, then walk, live, move, turn around, guard,
sustain, and survive, the only enlightened person will also use the
forests, wild forests, and frontier dwellings ( reclining seat): quiet,
quiet, away from the atmosphere of people, living alone, suitable for
sitting alone; he [walks alone,] walks alone, stands alone, sits alone,
lies alone, enters alone for the sake of alms The village [, advances
alone], returns alone, sits alone in a quiet place, walks alone, walks
alone, dwells, moves, turns, guards, keeps alive, keeps alive.” To use
the frontier dwelling, it should be like a rhinoceros Walk alone like a
corner.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"Just as the Lion King is a man with strong teeth, a man who
oppresses and conquers, he
　　　should use the edge of his dwelling, and he should walk alone like
the horn of a rhinoceros."
　　159. Do it at the right time. With compassion, compassion, joy,
peaceful liberation, and
　　　not being opposed by all the world, one should walk alone like a
rhinoceros horn.
　　"Do it at the right time, loving kindness, compassion, joy, peaceful
liberation": "The Enlightened One who fills one side with a mind that
goes hand in hand with loving kindness dwells, like this second, like
this third, like this The fourth quarter, like this up and down,
horizontally, and everywhere, to everything as it is to oneself, with a
heart that is compatible with loving-kindness, and a heart that is vast,
outstanding, immeasurable, free of resentment, and free of malice, and
then live in the whole world. A heart that goes with
compassion...(Middle abbreviated) A mind that goes along with
joy...(Middle abbreviation) A heart that goes along with peace...After
the whole world is filled with a mind that is vast, outstanding,
immeasurable, free from resentment, and free from malice Stay." To do it
at the right time, loving kindness, compassion, joy, peaceful liberation.
　　"Not to be opposed by all the world": With the state of
loving-kindness already practiced, all beings in the east are not
disobedient, all beings in the west... (middle abbreviated) All beings
in the north... all beings in the south ... all beings in the middle of
the east... all beings in the middle of the west... all beings in the
middle of the north... all beings in the middle of the south... all
beings below... all beings above ...all beings in all directions are not
disobedient; they have practiced in a state of compassion...in a state
of joy in practice...in a state of calm and practiced, all sentient
beings in the east... (middle abbreviated) The sentient beings they are
not disobedient to. "Not to be opposed by all the world": "Not to be
opposed by all the world, the hostile, the angry, the counterattack." In
order not to be opposed by all the world, one should walk alone like a
rhino's horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said:
　　"Do it at the right time, loving kindness, compassion, joy, peace
and liberation, and whoever
　　　is not opposed by all the world, should do it alone like a
rhinoceros horn."
　　160. Give up greed, hatred, and delusion . After breaking the knots,
　　　he who is not afraid at the end of his life should walk alone like
the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　"After abandoning greed, hatred and delusion": "greed", that is
greed, greed (complete greed)... (abbreviated in the middle) greed, the
root of greed is unwholesome. "Hatred" is the hatred and hostility of
the heart... (the middle abbreviated) brutal anger, rage, and
unpleasantness of the heart. "Delusion", the ignorance of suffering...
(omitted in the middle) the barrier of ignorance, the root of delusion.
"After renunciation of greed, hatred and delusion": "The one who is
completely enlightened has abandoned greed, hatred and delusion, after
he has abandoned it, after he has driven it away, after he has finished
it, and after he has made it come to non-existence."
　　"After breaking all knots": There are ten kinds of knots: the knot
of desire and greed, the knot of aversion... (abbreviated in the middle)
the knot of ignorance. "After breaking the knots": "After the ten kinds
of guitars are broken, broken, completely broken, discarded, driven
away, completed, and brought to non-existence." After the end.
　　"The one who is not afraid at the end of life": "The one who is
enlightened at the end of life is the one who is not afraid, the one who
is not afraid, the one who is not afraid, the one who does not frighten,
the one who is not afraid, the one who is not afraid, Those who are not
afraid, who are not frightened, who are not afraid, who do not run away,
dwell in those who have given up their fear and fear, and who have stood
up from their hair.” In order to be not afraid at the end of life, he
should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"After renunciation of greed, hatred, and delusion, and after
breaking all knots,
　　　those who are not afraid at the end of their lives should walk
alone like the horn of a rhinoceros."
　　161 . Friendship without a reason is hard to get today,
　　　and people who are impure have the wisdom of their own interests
and should walk alone like a rhinoceros horn.
　　"They approach and serve for the sake of profit": "For their own
sake, for the sake of others, for the sake of both, for the sake of the
present, for the sake of the future, for the sake of the highest good,
They draw near, consecrate (totally draw near), serve, associate (to
serve downward), to associate (to serve fully), to follow (to serve
toward).” Draw near and serve for their own sake.
　　"Friends without a reason are hard to come by today": "Friends",
there are two kinds of friends: friends at home and friends who are
monks (Cambodia version)... (Mid) This is a friend at home... (M) This
is Friends from home. "Friends without a reason are hard to get today":
"These two kinds of friends without a reason, without a reason, without
a reason, and without a reason are hard to get." Friends without a
reason are hard to get today.
　　"The impure people have the wisdom of their own interests": "'the
wisdom of their own interests', 'for their own interests, their own
causes, their own causes, their own causes they are close, dedicated
(totally close), served, made friends ( Downward service), communication
(full service), following (toward service), doing, doing good,
respecting, asking all the time, asking all the questions." Wisdom for
one's own benefit. "An impure person", "with impure bodily karma" ” is
an impure person; “Having impure speech karma” is an impure person;
“Having impure mental karma” is an impure person; impure killing... And
take... impure licentiousness... impure lies... impure alienation...
impure vulgar speech... impure profanity... impure greed... "Pure
malice" is an impure person; "Having an impure wrong view" is an impure
person; "Having an impure thought (intent)" is an impure person; "Having
an impure hope" is an impure person "Having an impure desire" is an
impure person, and an impure person is inferior, inferior, inferior,
inferior, inferior in intention, and trivial." For an impure person,
there is wisdom for one's own benefit. .
　　"You should walk alone like the horn of a rhinoceros": "'Alone', the
enlightened one is alone in the name of being a monk... (Middle
abbreviated) "Should do it", there are eight kinds of actions... (Middle
abbreviation) "Like a rhinoceros" like the horn of a rhinoceros is truly
unique... (abbreviated in the middle)." Because one should walk alone
like the horn of a rhinoceros.
　　Because of that, the Enlightened One said,
　　"They approach and serve on the basis of their own interests.
Friends without reasons are hard to get today. Impure
　　　people have the wisdom of their own interests and should walk
alone like rhino horns. ."
　　Fourth item [Completed].
　　The description of the Rhino Horn Sutra has been completed.
　　"Ayito, Maitreya, Furunagar and Maitreya,
　　　and Tudag, Upohi, Nanda, and Hermagar. Dudya and Gebo, and the
wise Rodu Gengni
　　　. ,
　　　as well as Bodowuda, Uthoa, and Persala Brahmins.
　　　The wise Moerraja, and the great immortal Pinchia,
　　　teach these sixteen as Brahmins.
　　　The explanation of the other side, they are only so There are many,
　　　the explanation of the rhinoceros horn scriptures is the same, the
　　　two explanations should be known, and they have been completed and
distinguished.”
　　The Xiaoyi Interpretation of the scriptures has been completed.


Notes:
　1. Begging for food every time, the heart is not bound by the family
of giving: practice the four meditations to cut off love and hatred, and
investigate the faults of all beings.
　2. Don't be afraid: to the voice and at the dying moment (break the
knots of greed, hatred, delusion).
　3. Cultivation of the four immeasurable hearts: not to be opposed by
all the world.
　4.37 The Tao is called Dharma, and those who guard the gate on the
roots, know the right amount of food and drink, specialize in sobriety,
mindfulness, and clear knowledge are called following the Dharma.
　12/10/2020 11:17
Note:
　　 Or because of the need for rhyming verses, the original text of
these two sentences is: "Metta, Calm, Compassionate liberation, doing
joy at the right time" (Mettaṃupekkhaṃ karuṇaṃ vimuttiṃ, āsevamāno
muditañca kāle), now according to the general four immeasurable minds
"Metta, Compassion" , joy, serenity" idiomatic sequential translation.
